<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>EMS Systems-Critical Thinking</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <a id="sec2" />
        Critical Thinking
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Fill-in-the-Blank</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then complete the statement by filling in the missing words.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Your appearance should be neat and ________ .
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        Medical information about a patient is ________ and should be shared only with other medical personnel who are involved in the care of that patient.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        The four basic goals of EMR training are to know what not to do, know how to use the EMR life support kit, know how to ________, and know how to ________ other EMS clinicians.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        Firefighters or ________ ________ personnel are likely to be the first responders in most emergencies.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        A(n) ________ ________ ________ ________ or ________ ________ ________ ________ usually receives the telephone call reporting an incident.
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">Short Answer</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Complete this section with short written answers using the space provided.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        What are the 11 standard components of an EMS system?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        After dispatch, what are the three points of patient contact with the EMS system?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        What are the four major goals of EMR training?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_6" aria-label="Page 6" />
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        Why is it important to have medical oversight?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        Name any five items that should be included in an emergency medical responder life support kit.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        List the six components of quality improvement identified by the Institute of Medicine.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        Identify five questions you should consider when evaluating a person whom you suspect is involved in human trafficking.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <h3 class="H2">You Make the Call</h3>
      <p class="TXL">The following scenario provides an opportunity to explore concerns associated with patient management. Read the scenario and answer the question to the best of your ability.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        You are dispatched to an emergency scene and gain access to the patient. You complete the primary assessment and stabilize the patient, and then paramedics arrive on the scene to assist. What should you do next?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
