<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>Workforce Safety and Wellness - Critical Thinking</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_11" aria-label="Page 11" />
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <a id="sec4" />
        Critical Thinking
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Fill-in-the-Blank</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then complete the statement by filling in the missing words.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Stress management consists of recognizing, preventing, and ________ stress.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        Scientific studies show that most people need about ________ hours of uninterrupted sleep per night.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        ________ stress education provides information about stresses that you will encounter and reactions you may experience.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        On-scene ________ support and disaster support services provide aid on scenes of especially stressful incidents.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        A(n) ________ ________ ________ ________ is used to alleviate stress reactions caused by high-stress emergency situations.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        Federal safety standards require approved ________ ________ any time you are working on an active highway.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        ________ objects may include vehicles, trees, poles, buildings, cliffs, and piles of materials.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">8.</span>
        Because electricity is ________, make sure that electrical ________ has been turned off by a(n) ________ person.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">9.</span>
        Latex and nitrile medical gloves can help prevent the spread of disease from blood contamination, but they provide no protection against ________ ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">10.</span>
        Weather cannot be ________ or ________.
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">Short Answer</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Complete this section with short written answers using the space provided.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        List three foods that provide a steady energy source over a prolonged period.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        List five signs or symptoms of stress.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        Describe four standard precautions recommended by the CDC.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_12" aria-label="Page 12" />
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        List three things you should keep in mind when parking your vehicle at an emergency scene.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        What five special rescue situations require special safety considerations, training, or equipment?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        List five hazards that may be present at an accident scene and need to be considered by the EMR.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        Name the five stages of the grieving process.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <h3 class="H2">You Make the Call</h3>
      <p class="TXL">The following scenarios provide an opportunity to explore concerns associated with patient management. Read the scenario and answer the question to the best of your ability.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        At 4:00 am, you are dispatched to a shooting at a residence. As you approach, two police cars leave the scene of the crime with their lights and sirens on, and dispatch informs you that law enforcement personnel believe the shooter has left the scene. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        You respond to a call for a “sick person” at an apartment complex known for violence and frequent drug overdoses. When you arrive, you find a 35-year-old man standing in the doorway of his apartment. The patient is pale with sweaty skin. He tells you that he has been feeling ill for several days. He complains of night sweats, weight loss, and coughing up blood-streaked sputum for several days. The apartment complex is rather crowded and dirty. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
