<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>Lifting and Moving Patients - Critical Thinking</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_22" aria-label="Page 22" />
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <a id="sec7" />
        Critical Thinking
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Fill-in-the-Blank</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then complete the statement by filling in the missing words.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        The primary technique used to move a patient onto a long backboard is ________ ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        Use backboards to ________ patients who have neck or back injuries.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        ________ ________ are used to minimize excess movement of the neck and head.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        A(n) ________ stretcher or orthopaedic stretcher is a rigid device that is helpful in moving patients out of small spaces.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        ________ cervical collars do not provide sufficient support for trauma patients.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        When performing a log roll, the rescuer holding the patient’s ________ should always give commands to move the patient.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        Because the log-rolling maneuver requires sufficient space for ________ rescuers, it is not always possible to perform it correctly.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">8.</span>
        A(n) ________ ________ is used when a wheeled stretcher cannot be moved into a small space.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">9.</span>
        The ________ ________ ________ is used to move a patient who is on the ground or the floor onto an ambulance stretcher.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">10.</span>
        Your top priority is to ensure your own ________.
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">Short Answer</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Complete this section with short written answers using the space provided.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Name two of the most common reasons why you would move a patient.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        What should you do if you suspect that a patient has sustained trauma to their head or spine?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        Why would the recovery position be used for an unconscious patient who has not sustained trauma?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_23" aria-label="Page 23" />
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        Describe three situations that require moving a patient before emergency medical care is provided.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        Name three pieces of equipment that EMS clinicians commonly use for lifting and moving patients.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        Name five guidelines to keep in mind when deciding to move a patient.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <h3 class="H2">You Make the Call</h3>
      <p class="TXL">The following scenarios provide an opportunity to explore concerns associated with patient management. Read the scenario and answer the question to the best of your ability.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        You and your partner are directed to an older adult who lives in a house near a major fire. He says that he has a heart condition and gets out of breath after walking a few steps. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        Your unit arrives at the scene of a motor vehicle crash involving a car striking a tree. The patient tells you she lost control of her vehicle after answering her cell phone. She complains of neck pain. There appear to be no life threats or safety concerns for you or the patient. Your partner calls for a transporting EMS unit. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
