<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>Medical, Legal, and Ethical Issues - Critical Thinking</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_31" aria-label="Page 31" />
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <a id="sec10" />
        Critical Thinking
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Fill-in-the-Blank</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then complete the statement by filling in the missing words.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        A(n) ________ ________ states the types of medical care a person wants or wants withheld if the person is unable to make their own treatment decisions.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        Injuries caused by improper care can be a situation of ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        For a Good Samaritan law to provide any protection from civil liability, you must act in ________ ________ to provide care to the level of your training and to the best of your ability.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        The ________ ________ ________ is the manner in which you must act or behave.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        ________ consent is based on the assumption that the patient has the right to determine what will be done to their body.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        A(n) ________ is a person who has not reached the legal age designated by a particular state.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        A(n) ________ ________ ________ ________ for health care allows individuals to designate another person to make decisions about medical care for them if they are unable to make decisions for themselves.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">8.</span>
        ________ is the acronym for the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">9.</span>
        Most personal health information is ________ and should not be released without the patient’s permission.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">10.</span>
        Documentation should be clear, concise, ________, and ________.
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">Short Answer</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Complete this section with short written answers using the space provided.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Which agency developed education standards for EMRs?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        What is the purpose of Good Samaritan laws?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        What four conditions can be used to reliably determine that a patient is dead?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_32" aria-label="Page 32" />
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        Name three crimes that are reportable.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        Name three factors that should be included in documentation.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <h3 class="H2">You Make the Call</h3>
      <p class="TXL">The following scenarios provide an opportunity to explore concerns associated with patient management. Read the scenario and answer the question to the best of your ability.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        You are called to the scene of a fight in a bar where a patron reportedly has been stabbed. You consider it a potential crime scene. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        You respond to a home for a “cardiac arrest.” When you arrive, you are greeted by a woman who appears to be in her 80s. She is crying and tells you she believes her husband is dead and says that she did not know what to do. She says she knew this day would come ever since her husband was diagnosed with terminal cancer 3 months ago. As you approach the patient, you notice that he is pale, unresponsive, and does not appear to be breathing. You quickly ask the woman about an advance directive or a DNR. She tells you she believes something like that was done when her husband was in the hospital, but she is not sure. She asks you to do everything you can to keep him alive. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
