<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>Airway Management-Critical Thinking</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_58" aria-label="Page 58" />
        <a id="sec16" />
        Critical Thinking
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Fill-in-the-Blank</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then complete the statement by filling in the missing words.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Two types of suction devices are ________ and ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        If a patient is breathing adequately, you can keep their airway open by placing the patient in the ________ position.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        During inadequate breathing, the patient may experience ________, a change in skin color to blue or gray around the lips or fingernail beds.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        The most critical sign of inadequate breathing is ________ ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        To perform rescue breathing, pinch the patient’s ________ with your thumb and forefinger.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        The main purpose of the respiratory system is to provide oxygen and to remove ________ ________ from the lungs.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        Without oxygen, the brain will die in ________ to ________ minutes.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">8.</span>
        In cases of severe head trauma, a(n) ________ airway may cause further brain damage.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">9.</span>
        ________ ________ occurs when air is forced into the stomach instead of the lungs.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">10.</span>
        Before insertion of an oral airway, the proper size must be determined by measuring from the patient’s ________ to the corner of the ________.
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">Short Answer</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Complete this section with short written answers using the space provided.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Name two primary purposes of an oral airway.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        List the steps involved in inserting an oral airway.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        List the steps involved in inserting a nasal airway.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_59" aria-label="Page 59" />
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        List the steps involved in ventilating a patient with a mouth-to-mask device.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        Name two signs of inadequate breathing.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        Name two types of airway obstructions.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        Describe how to place a patient in the recovery position.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <h3 class="H2">You Make the Call</h3>
      <p class="TXL">The following scenarios provide an opportunity to explore concerns associated with patient management. Read the scenario and answer the question to the best of your ability.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        You are called to a scene where an unconscious 18-year-old has choked on a piece of food and has a severe airway obstruction. You treat this patient by performing CPR. What would you have done differently if this patient had been conscious when you arrived?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        You are dispatched to a local church for a possible cardiac arrest. When you enter the room, you find a 72-year-old man lying on the floor, surrounded by people. The patient has a tracheal stoma and does not appear to be breathing adequately. A woman from the church tells you that she would have started mouth-to-mouth CPR but was unsure how to proceed due to the stoma. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
