<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>Professional Rescuer CPR-Critical Thinking</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_69" aria-label="Page 69" />
        <a id="sec19" />
        Critical Thinking
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Fill-in-the-Blank</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then complete the statement by filling in the missing words.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Chest compressions for an infant should be delivered at a rate of at least ________ to ________ per minute during CPR.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        An infant’s pulse should be checked at the ________ artery.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        The circulatory system consists of a(n) ________ , a network of pipes (blood vessels), and ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        The main artery carrying blood away from the heart is the ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        ________ ________ is the temporary stiffening of muscles that occurs several hours after death.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        Bloating of the stomach is called ________ ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        Most out-of-hospital cardiac arrest patients have an irregular heart electrical rhythm called ________ ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">8.</span>
        A patient in ________ ________ is unconscious, has no carotid pulse, and is not breathing.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">9.</span>
        Brain damage begins within ________ to ________ minutes after the patient has gone into cardiac arrest.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">10.</span>
        You should regularly update your skills by successfully completing a recognized ________ course.
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">Short Answer</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Complete this section with short written answers using the space provided.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Where along the sternum should you place your thumbs to deliver chest compressions to an infant?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        Name two causes of gastric distention during CPR.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        Name the four major arteries discussed in this chapter.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_70" aria-label="Page 70" />
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        What are four reliable signs of death?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        What are situations that you should be alerted to before operating an AED on a patient, and how do you correct them?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        List six reasons for discontinuing CPR.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        What are three signs that effective CPR is being administered to the patient?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <h3 class="H2">You Make the Call</h3>
      <p class="TXL">The following scenarios provide an opportunity to explore concerns associated with patient management. Read the scenario and answer the question to the best of your ability.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        You arrive on the scene to find a 58-year-old man lying facedown in his garden next to a tiller he has been operating. He does not respond to you as you approach. In fact, you think he is not breathing. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        You respond to check on the well-being of an older woman at the request of her neighbor. The neighbor tells you that the woman is usually out in her garden every day without fail, but she has not been seen for several days. After gaining access to the woman’s residence, you find her lying supine in bed. There is a foul odor in the room, and you notice that she is unresponsive. Your primary assessment reveals no breathing and no pulse. You observe a purplish coloring on her back. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
