<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>Behavioral Emergencies-General Knowledge</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <a id="sec27" />
        General Knowledge
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Matching</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Match each of the items in the left column to the appropriate definition in the right column.</p>
      <table>
        <tbody>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">1.</span>
                Redirection
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">A.</span>
                Abnormal thought processes and/or loss of contact with reality
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">2.</span>
                Situational crisis
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">B.</span>
                A means of focusing the patient’s attention on the immediate situation or crisis
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">3.</span>
                Emotional shock
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">C.</span>
                Act of rephrasing a patient’s statement to show that they are being heard and understood
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">4.</span>
                Critical incident stress debriefing (CISD)
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">D.</span>
                State of emotional upset or turmoil caused by a sudden and disruptive event
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">5.</span>
                Behavioral emergency
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">E.</span>
                A pattern of decline in mental function
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">6.</span>
                Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">F.</span>
                State of shock caused by sudden illness, accident, or the death of a loved one
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">7.</span>
                Empathy
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">G.</span>
                Ability to sense another person’s emotions
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">8.</span>
                Dementia
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">H.</span>
                System of psychological support designed to reduce stress on emergency personnel after a major incident
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">9.</span>
                Restatement
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">I.</span>
                Abnormal behavior that is unacceptable or cannot be tolerated by the patient, family, or community
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">10.</span>
                Psychotic behavior
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">J.</span>
                Mental health or behavioral condition triggered by experiencing or witnessing a terrifying event
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
        </tbody>
      </table>
      <h3 class="H2">Multiple Choice</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then select the one best response.</p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 1.</span>
        Which of the following is NOT one of the phases of a situational crisis?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        Anger
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        Remorse
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        Empathy
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        Emotional shock
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 2.</span>
        You arrive at the scene of a motor vehicle crash and find a teenage girl staring at other emergency personnel caring for an older woman. She then says, “If I hadn’t asked her to take me to the mall, this wouldn’t have happened.” What phase of a situational crisis is this girl probably experiencing?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        Anxiety
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        Denial
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        Remorse
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        Emotional shock
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_104" aria-label="Page 104" />
        <span class="fnza">________ 3.</span>
        Which of the following should you NOT do when talking to a patient?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        Establish eye contact.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        Bring yourself to the patient’s level.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        Talk in a calm, steady voice.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        Tell the patient that everything will be all right if it will make the patient feel better.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 4.</span>
        Which of the following is NOT true regarding behavioral emergencies?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        They may be caused by situational stress or physical trauma.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        They are not caused by injuries such as head trauma.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        They call for appropriate communication, especially body language.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        They describe situations where people behave in an abnormal and unacceptable manner.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 5.</span>
        Behavioral emergencies are caused by:
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        eating excessive carbohydrates.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        situational stresses.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        minor trauma, such as an abrasion.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        rapid breathing.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 6.</span>
        A person who is experiencing high anxiety is likely to exhibit all of the following characteristics, EXCEPT:
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        a loud or screaming voice.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        flushed face and general agitation.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        rapid breathing and rapid speech.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        a calm demeanor and even tone of voice.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 7.</span>
        Which of the following is NOT true when responding to a potentially violent patient?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        A person who is pacing or cannot sit still is likely to become violent.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        A person’s posture is not an accurate means of assessing violence potential.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        Loud, obscene, or bizarre speech indicates emotional instability.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        When all interventions fail, law enforcement may need to be summoned.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 8.</span>
        Which of the following is NOT typically considered before applying force to restrain a patient?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        Type of abnormal behavior exhibited
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        Size, strength, and sex of patient
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        Approval from medical control
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        Type of restraint
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 9.</span>
        Management of a suicide crisis includes:
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        making judgmental statements.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        ignoring threats.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        assuming the patient always acts this way.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        support of the patient’s ABCs as needed.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 10.</span>
        Warning signs of increased risk of suicide include each of the following, EXCEPT:
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        talking about feeling hopeless.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        withdrawing from social contact.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        acting anxious or agitated.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        hoarding belongings.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 11.</span>
        Which of the following statements regarding dealing with death and dying is NOT true?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        Dealing with your own feelings is not necessary when comforting others.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        Do not make false statements about the situation.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        Do whatever you can to meet the patient’s medical needs.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        Consider the psychological needs of the patient and family.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_105" aria-label="Page 105" />
        <span class="fnza">________ 12.</span>
        Which of the following is NOT true regarding dealing with an armed patient?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        If you are confronted by an armed person, immediately attempt to defend yourself.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        It is not your role to handle this situation unless you are a law enforcement officer.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        Do not proceed into an area where there may be an armed person without assistance from law enforcement.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        If you must wait for law enforcement, stay in your vehicle in a safe location.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 13.</span>
        The suicide rate is highest among people ages:
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        15 to 25 years.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        85 years and older.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        45 to 65 years.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        65 years to 85 years.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 14.</span>
        Traumatic events that may lead to PTSD include each of the following, EXCEPT:
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        physical attack.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        sexual assault.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        working around sick people.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        military combat exposure.
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">True/False</h3>
      <p class="TXL">If you believe the statement to be more true than false, write the letter “T” in the space provided. If you believe the statement to be more false than true, write the letter “F.”</p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 1.</span>
        In your role as an EMR, you should give psychological and emotional support to patients, as well as emergency medical care.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 2.</span>
        When a person cannot cope with sudden or unexpected events, the person may act strange or even demonstrate dangerous behavior.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 3.</span>
        As an EMR, you will rarely intervene in a situational crisis.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 4.</span>
        Your interest in helping someone can be communicated by establishing eye contact.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 5.</span>
        Even in serious situations, you can reassure a patient and still be honest by saying that everything possible is being done to help the patient.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 6.</span>
        Standing above a patient with your hands on your hips assures the patient that you are a confident, caring professional.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 7.</span>
        Simple acts of kindness, such as offering a tissue or blanket, can often comfort a person who is emotionally upset and can sometimes lessen the severity of the crisis reaction.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 8.</span>
        If you have negative feelings about a patient, you should not provide care for that patient.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 9.</span>
        The best way to avoid violence against EMRs is prevention.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 10.</span>
        Head injuries and shock may cause behavioral emergencies.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 11.</span>
        High fevers and excess cold may cause behavioral emergencies.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 12.</span>
        Psychotic behavior is characterized by defective or lost contact with reality.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 13.</span>
        A state of emotional upset or turmoil caused by a sudden and disruptive event is called psychotic behavior.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 14.</span>
        A person who is in emotional shock will not exhibit any physical signs of other types of shock.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 15.</span>
        In a situational crisis, when a patient expresses denial, it is the responsibility of the EMR to quietly but firmly keep repeating reality.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 16.</span>
        During a situational crisis, a person calls you incompetent and swears at you. You should immediately leave the scene and call your supervisor.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_106" aria-label="Page 106" />
        <span class="fnza">________ 17.</span>
        Anger is difficult to handle objectively because it may seem to be directed at you personally.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 18.</span>
        Treatment of a patient who is exhibiting abnormal behavior does not require the same steps of the patient assessment sequence as treatment of other patients.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 19.</span>
        The EMR should not try to communicate with a patient who is exhibiting abnormal behavior.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 20.</span>
        Effective communication with a patient requires body language that exhibits empathy and interest.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 21.</span>
        Crisis intervention techniques may include touching the patient.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 22.</span>
        Crisis intervention techniques include good eye contact and a calm, steady voice.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 23.</span>
        In crisis management, the most important step you can take is to talk with the person.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 24.</span>
        A good way to reassure a patient and show that you understand is simply to say, “I know what you mean” or “I know how you feel.”
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 25.</span>
        Empathy can best be expressed by telling the patient that you know exactly how they feel.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 26.</span>
        The technique of redirection may call for movement of the patient.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 27.</span>
        If the presence of too many emergency personnel at the scene is adding to a patient’s anxiety, it is the responsibility of the EMR to ask them to move to another location.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 28.</span>
        Crowds that may become hostile are the responsibility of law enforcement officers, not the EMRs.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 29.</span>
        EMRs should identify themselves to the patient and give reassurance that they are there to help.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 30.</span>
        If you suspect abuse, your responsibility is to maintain the safety of yourself and the patient.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 31.</span>
        The tension phase is usually the shortest part of the abuse cycle.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 32.</span>
        There should always be an escape route between you and the patient at scenes that may become dangerous.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 33.</span>
        Your ability to use good interpersonal communication skills will help prevent many situations from becoming violent.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 34.</span>
        Depression is more common in older adults than in other age groups.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 35.</span>
        Not all suicide attempts need to be taken seriously.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 36.</span>
        PTSD is a severe form of anxiety.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 37.</span>
        When treating a patient who was sexually assaulted, encourage them to bathe and use the restroom.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 38.</span>
        Coping with the death of others is a routine aspect of your job as an EMR.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 39.</span>
        If you let stress build up without releasing it in healthy ways, it can begin to have negative effects on you and your performance.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna"> 
        <span class="fnza">________ 40.</span> 
        CISD teams may be helpful to rescuers who have been through an overwhelming or stressful event.
      </p> 
    </section>  
  </body>   
</html>  
