<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>Behavioral Emergencies-Critical Thinking</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <a id="sec28" />
        Critical Thinking
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Fill-in-the-Blank</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then complete the statement by filling in the missing words.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Every emergency creates some sort of a(n) ________ ________ for the patient and for those close to the patient.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        ________ is a normal human response to emotional overload or frustration.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        ________ can help focus the patient’s attention on the immediate situation.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_107" aria-label="Page 107" />
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        Trying to put yourself in the patient’s shoes is known as ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        Many suicide attempts are really ________ ________ ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        Performing simple ________ ________ may help reduce a patient’s anxiety when there are many people around.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        Abuse has been described as a(n) ________-part cycle.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">8.</span>
        Your most important assessment skill may be your ability to ________ with the patient.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">9.</span>
        There are ________ emotional phases to each situational crisis.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">10.</span>
        ________ and a sense of helplessness can often build to anger.
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">Short Answer</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Complete this section with short written answers using the space provided.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        List five main factors that can cause behavioral changes.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        What are some principles you should use when assessing patients with a behavioral problem?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        What is the proper patient assessment sequence for a patient with a behavioral emergency?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        Identify five signs and symptoms of child abuse.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        Name four factors that increase the risk of violence in the workplace.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_108" aria-label="Page 108" />
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        What are three key components of caring for a patient with dementia?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        List at least three signs and symptoms of extreme stress.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">8.</span>
        What is the purpose of CISD?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">9.</span>
        Provide a response to each of the following statements using the technique of restatement. In addition to rephrasing the statement to show that you understand, try to add some reassuring or encouraging words.
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        From a woman who has been hit by a car: “I can’t stay here! I have to go home and start dinner for the kids!”
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        From the driver of the car that hit the woman: “I didn’t mean to hit her! She just ran out all of a sudden! What if she dies?”
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        From one of the woman’s children, who was with her but not struck by the car: “I want my mommy! Let me go to my mommy!”
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">10.</span>
        Provide a response to each of the statements in Question 9 using the technique of redirection.
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        ____________________________________________________
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        ____________________________________________________
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        ____________________________________________________
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_109" aria-label="Page 109" />
        You Make the Call
      </h3>
      <p class="TXL">The following scenarios provide an opportunity to explore concerns associated with patient management. Read the scenario and answer the question to the best of your ability.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        When you arrive on the scene, you find a 24-year-old woman pacing the room and crying loudly. When you approach her, she pushes you away, saying, “I don’t want your help; nobody can help me.” She then turns her back to you and continues to pace. According to her friend, she and her boyfriend had a big fight, and he just left. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        You respond to the scene of a suspected suicide. When you arrive on the scene, you are greeted by a neighbor who tells you she found the patient in her closed garage, sitting in her car with the engine running. She said the patient was crying and stated, “I don’t really want to die, but I just can’t deal with this anymore.” After you verify the engine is shut off and the garage doors are open, you approach the patient, a 36-year-old woman. How are you going to manage this patient?
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_110" aria-label="Page 110" />
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
