<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>Environmental Emergencies-General Knowledge</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <a id="sec29" />
        General Knowledge
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Matching</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Match each of the items in the left column to the appropriate definition in the right column.</p>
      <table>
        <tbody>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">1.</span>
                Drowning
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">A.</span>
                A condition in which the internal (or core) body temperature falls below 95°F (35°C) after prolonged exposure to cool or freezing temperatures
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">2.</span>
                Frostbite
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">B.</span>
                A form of shock that occurs from significant fluid loss and electrolyte loss due to heavy sweating after heat exposure
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">3.</span>
                Heat cramps
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">C.</span>
                Process of experiencing respiratory impairment from submersion in liquid
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">4.</span>
                Heat exhaustion
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">D.</span>
                Injury resulting from being beneath the surface of water or another liquid
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">5.</span>
                Heatstroke
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">E.</span>
                A condition in which the body’s mechanisms for heat release are overwhelmed due to a rapidly rising internal temperature
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">6.</span>
                Hypothermia
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">F.</span>
                Muscle spasms that usually occur after vigorous exercise in hot weather
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">7.</span>
                Laryngospasm
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">G.</span>
                Spasm of muscles of the larynx or vocal cords resulting in an inability to breathe
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>________</td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">8.</span>
                Submersion injury
              </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p class="hangn">
                <span class="fnz">H.</span>
                Freezing of the skin and deeper tissues caused by exposure to cold
              </p>
            </td>
          </tr>
        </tbody>
      </table>
      <h3 class="H2">Multiple Choice</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then select the one best response.</p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 1.</span>
        Immediate emergency medical care for a patient who has heatstroke should consist of:
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        calling for help.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        arranging for rapid transport to the hospital.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        giving the patient a drink of cool water and then treating for shock.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        maintaining the patient’s ABCs and then lowering their body temperature as quickly as possible.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 2.</span>
        Which of the following statements is true regarding the treatment of mild shock caused by heat exhaustion?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        Monitoring the patient’s ABCs is usually not necessary.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        The patient should be soaked in cold water.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        The patient should be given a drink of cool water unless they are unconscious, nauseated, or vomiting.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        The patient’s feet and legs should not be elevated.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 3.</span>
        Which of the following signs and symptoms is associated with hypothermia?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        Agitation
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        Sleepiness
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        Bright red skin
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        Elevated body temperature
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 4.</span>
        Your first step in caring for a patient with hypothermia should be to:
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        treat the patient for shock.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        give the patient something to eat and drink.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        help the patient walk around to produce more body heat.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        move the patient to a warmer location and remove any wet clothing.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_112" aria-label="Page 112" />
        <span class="fnza">________ 5.</span>
        In a patient who is suffering from hypothermia, the heart may stop functioning at what core body temperature?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        83°F (28°C)
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        90°F (32°C)
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        95°F (35°C)
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        97°F (36°C)
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 6.</span>
        The signs and symptoms of dizziness, nausea, profuse sweating, and a weak pulse indicate:
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        heatstroke.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        heat exhaustion.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        hypothermia.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        heat cramps.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 7.</span>
        The symptoms of hot and flushed skin, loss of consciousness, and high body temperature are indications of:
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        heatstroke.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        heat exhaustion.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        hypothermia.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        heat cramps.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 8.</span>
        Which of the following statements regarding frostbite is NOT true?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        It may occur on the face.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        Wind speed may be a factor.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        Age, exhaustion, and hunger may increase susceptibility.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        It occurs only after an extended exposure to cold in an outdoor environment.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 9.</span>
        If a person’s body is not able to produce enough energy to keep its core temperature at a satisfactory level, the person has:
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        hypothermia.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        superficial frostbite.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        deep frostbite.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        heat exhaustion.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 10.</span>
        A patient’s symptoms include shivering, sleepiness, and feeling cold. These symptoms indicate:
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        deep frostbite.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        superficial frostbite.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        hypothermia.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        heat deprivation.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 11.</span>
        Which of the following statements regarding drowning is NOT true?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        Drowning is the second-leading cause of injury and death among children 5 to 14 years old.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        Alcohol consumption is not a contributing factor in drowning incidents involving teenagers.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        Young children can drown in liquids as shallow as 6 inches.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        The process of drowning progresses through several stages.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 12.</span>
        When you encounter a person who has been submerged in cold water for an extended time:
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        do not begin CPR until the core temperature rises to above 95°F (35°C).
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        begin rescue breathing, but do not attempt CPR until an AED is available.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        CPR should be started and continued until the patient is delivered to an appropriate medical facility.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        CPR should be initiated if the submersion lasted less than 15 minutes.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 13.</span>
        Which of the following statements regarding electrical injuries from a lightning strike is NOT true?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        All patients should be transported to a medical facility.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        Lightning strikes can result in internal burns.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        Lightning strikes can cause cardiac irregularities or cardiac arrest.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        Cardiac problems are only seen within the first hour after the strike.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_113" aria-label="Page 113" />
        <span class="fnza">________ 14.</span>
        Which of the following statements regarding the assessment of a patient with an environmental emergency is NOT true?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        It is typically best to collect a medical history on the patient before you perform a secondary assessment.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        You do not need to complete a patient assessment if the patient seems aware of their problems.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        Review the dispatch information to help decide on the possible treatment for the patient’s problem.
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        The SAMPLE history format will help collect the information you need to provide effective medical care.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 15.</span>
        Which of the following is NOT a sign or symptom of a submersion injury?
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">A.</span>
        Diarrhea
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">B.</span>
        Vomiting
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">C.</span>
        Respiratory distress
      </p>
      <p class="hangnb">
        <span class="fnz">D.</span>
        Coughing
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">True/False</h3>
      <p class="TXL">If you believe the statement to be more true than false, write the letter “T” in the space provided. If you believe the statement to be more false than true, write the letter “F.”</p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 1.</span>
        Older adults and persons who are exhausted or hungry are more susceptible to frostbite.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 2.</span>
        A person must be exposed to cold for a long time to sustain frostbite injuries, even on very cold, windy days.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 3.</span>
        In cases of frostbite, exposed body parts actually freeze.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 4.</span>
        In the first stage of superficial frostbite, the exposed body part becomes pale white.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 5.</span>
        If a person with frostbite has been out in the cold for hours, you should arrange for transport to the hospital rather than trying to rewarm the affected body parts yourself.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 6.</span>
        As an EMR, your emergency medical care of frostbite will consist of rewarming affected body parts and treating the patient for signs of shock.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 7.</span>
        Although you should never rub a frostbitten area with snow or ice, rubbing the area with your hands or a cloth is a good way to rewarm the area.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 8.</span>
        The core body temperature of a person with hypothermia is lower than normal.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 9.</span>
        Hypothermia occurs only in conditions of extreme cold.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 10.</span>
        You should remove all wet clothing from a person who has hypothermia.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 11.</span>
        Left untreated, hypothermia is serious but rarely fatal.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 12.</span>
        If a patient who has hypothermia is conscious, you should give the patient something warm to drink.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 13.</span>
        If possible, you should move a patient who has hypothermia to a warmer place.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 14.</span>
        If a patient goes into cardiac arrest as a result of hypothermia, you should immediately begin CPR.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 15.</span>
        A person with hypothermia who may have been considered dead for hours can sometimes be revived in a hospital.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 16.</span>
        Heatstroke may cause brain damage or death.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 17.</span>
        The most important step in treating heatstroke is rehydration.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 18.</span>
        Frostbite and hypothermia may be encountered at any time of the year.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 19.</span>
        Exercise, age, and medications may all be factors in a heat-related illness.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 20.</span>
        A patient showing indications of heat exhaustion should not be moved until the ABCs are monitored and the BP is stabilized.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 21.</span>
        A patient with deep frostbite should be transported to a medical facility for treatment.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 22.</span>
        If a patient who appears to have hypothermia stops shivering, it is safe to assume that the patient has recovered and needs no treatment.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_114" aria-label="Page 114" />
        <span class="fnza">________ 23.</span>
        CPR should be used on hypothermic patients even if there are no vital signs to indicate life.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 24.</span>
        All patients who have sustained a submersion injury should be examined by a physician.
      </p>
      <p class="hangna">
        <span class="fnza">________ 25.</span>
        The mammalian diving reflex increases the heart rate and metabolic rate while decreasing the body’s demand for oxygen.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
