<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>Environmental Emergencies-Critical Thinking</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <a id="sec30" />
        Critical Thinking
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Fill-in-the-Blank</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then complete the statement by filling in the missing words.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Identify each of the following signs and symptoms associated with heat exhaustion or heatstroke by writing “HE,” “HS,” or both in the space provided.
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">________ A.</span>
        Low blood pressure
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">________ B.</span>
        Light-headedness or dizziness
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">________ C.</span>
        High body temperature
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">________ D.</span>
        Profuse sweating
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">________ E.</span>
        Altered mental status or unconsciousness
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">________ F.</span>
        Flushed, dry skin
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">________ G.</span>
        Weak pulse
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">________ H.</span>
        Nausea
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        Drinking ________ ________ is an excellent treatment for patients experiencing heat exhaustion.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        ________ is defined as respiratory impairment because of submersion in water or other fluids.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        There have been cases in which a person was submerged in cold water for over ________ minutes and was still successfully resuscitated.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        For someone who is drowning, the feeling of panic produces a(n) ________ breathing pattern.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        For children ages 5 to 14 years, most drownings occur in ________ and ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        As the body temperature drops and hypothermia progresses, ________ stops.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">8.</span>
        Do not try to warm a frostbitten area by ________ with your hands.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">9.</span>
        One way to help cool a patient is to place ice packs on the patient’s ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">10.</span>
        In heatstroke, the patient’s body temperature rises until it reaches a level at which brain ________ occurs.
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_115" aria-label="Page 115" />
        Fill-in-the-Table
      </h3>
      <p class="TXL">Fill in the missing parts of the table.</p>
      <table class="tab1">
        <thead>
          <tr>
            <th class="a2" scope="col" colspan="2">Comparing Heat Exhaustion and Heatstroke</th>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th scope="col" class="a2">Heat Exhaustion</th>
            <th scope="col" class="a2">Heatstroke</th>
          </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <tr>
            <td class="a1">________ body temperature</td>
            <td class="a1">________ body temperature</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td class="a1">________</td>
            <td class="a1">________ skin (usually)</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td class="a1">________ and ________ skin</td>
            <td class="a1">________ and ________ skin</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td class="a1">Dizziness and ________</td>
            <td class="a1">Altered ________ ________</td>
          </tr>
        </tbody>
      </table>
      <h3 class="H2">Short Answer</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Complete this section with short written answers using the space provided.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Name four body parts most susceptible to frostbite.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        List the four common signs and symptoms of heat exhaustion.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        Explain why older adults are more susceptible to heat and cold injuries.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        What are the steps involved in treating a patient with heatstroke?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <h3 class="H2">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_116" aria-label="Page 116" />
        You Make the Call
      </h3>
      <p class="TXL">The following scenarios provide an opportunity to explore concerns associated with patient management. Read the scenario and answer the question to the best of your ability.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        You are at a family reunion at a local community park. You hear a cry for help down by a stream and find a young girl screaming that her brother fell in the stream and cannot swim. When you get near the stream, you see a young boy facedown in the water. He is not moving. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        You respond to a local church festival on a community service detail. Shortly after your arrival, you are summoned to one of the food stands to help a man who is ill. There you find a 62-year-old man with cold, sweaty skin who complains of dizziness and nausea. The ambient temperature outside is 88°F (31°C), and it is much warmer inside the food stand. How should you treat this patient?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
