<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>Bleeding, Shock, and Soft-Tissue Injuries-Critical Thinking</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_125" aria-label="Page 125" />
        <a id="sec32" />
        Critical Thinking
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Fill-in-the-Blank</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then complete the statement by filling in the missing words.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Using the rule of nines, calculate the percentage of the body that would be burned in each scenario for an adult patient.
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">________ A.</span>
        Both legs
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">________ B.</span>
        Groin, front of trunk, and head
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">________ C.</span>
        One-half of the front of the trunk and one arm
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">________ D.</span>
        Backs of both arms and back
      </p>
      <p class="hangns">
        <span class="fnz">________ E.</span>
        Fronts of both legs and groin
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        Use of a(n) ________ is indicated only in situations where extremity bleeding cannot be controlled by direct pressure or elevation.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        If you get blood on your hands, ________ it off as soon as possible with ________ and ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        Most deaths from gunshot wounds result from ________ blood loss.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        If an entire body part is torn away, the wound is called a(n) ________ amputation.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        It is important to stop bleeding as quickly as possible using the ________ dressing available.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        A(n) ________ is an object placed directly on a wound to control bleeding and prevent further contamination.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">8.</span>
        Two types of bandages commonly used in the field are ________ ________ and triangular bandages.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">9.</span>
        Once you have completed applying the bandage, ________ it so that it cannot ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">10.</span>
        Severe scalp lacerations may be associated with ________ ________ or even ________ injury.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">11.</span>
        A nosebleed with no apparent cause is called a(n) ________ nosebleed.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">12.</span>
        If a patient is vomiting blood, it may be an indication of bleeding from the ________ or ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">13.</span>
        Injury to the genitals can often result in severe ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">14.</span>
        All bites carry a high risk of causing ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">15.</span>
        If blisters are present with a burn, be very careful not to ________ the blisters.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">16.</span>
        When dealing with a chemical burn, you should ________ ________ any dry chemical on the patient’s clothes or skin.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">17.</span>
        Chemical burns to the eyes can cause extreme ________ and severe injury.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">18.</span>
        Electricity causes major ________ damage, rather than ________ damage.
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_126" aria-label="Page 126" />
        Short Answer
      </h3>
      <p class="TXL">Complete this section with short written answers using the space provided.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Name three primary parts of the circulatory system.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        Name three primary causes of shock.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        Name three things you could use for an occlusive dressing.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        What are the three classifications of burns?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        What should you use to cover the affected area after a thermal burn has cooled?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        Name three signs or symptoms of respiratory burns.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_127" aria-label="Page 127" />
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        What are the steps for the general treatment of shock?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">8.</span>
        What are the steps for treating an open abdominal wound?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <h3 class="H2">You Make the Call</h3>
      <p class="TXL">The following scenarios provide an opportunity to explore the concerns associated with patient management. Read the scenario and answer the question to the best of your ability.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        When you arrive at the scene, you find that your patient is a 6-year-old girl who was preparing breakfast to surprise her mother. She started water boiling, and when she attempted to pour it into a mug, the pan slipped, and the boiling water burned her abdomen, the lower part of her left arm, and the front of both legs. Most of the burn area is covered with large blisters. Some of the blisters are intact, whereas others are broken, with the skin peeling. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        You are dispatched to a local machine shop to check on a man with an injured arm. You are on the scene in less than 1 minute because you are one block away. As you arrive, you are told that the patient got his arm caught in a lathe and has a severe laceration and damage to his lower arm. Upon examination, you note blood spurting from the patient’s lower arm. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
