<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>Injuries to Muscles and Bones-Critical Thinking</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_136" aria-label="Page 136" />
        <a id="sec35" />
        Critical Thinking
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Fill-in-the-Blank</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then complete the statement by filling in the missing words.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Splinting of the cervical spine is accomplished with a rigid ________ and a long or short spine board or backboard.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        The primary danger in severe facial injuries is ________ of the airway.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        One sign of a head injury, known as the ________ sign, is a bruise behind one or both ears.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        A spinal cord injury may paralyze respiratory muscles and cause the patient to breathe using only the diaphragm, which is known as ________ breathing.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        Fracture of three or more ribs in at least two places causes a condition known as ________ chest.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        ________ is abnormal brittleness of bones in older people caused by loss of calcium.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        For a patient with a spinal cord injury, you should not move the patient unless it is necessary to perform ________ or remove the person from a dangerous situation.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">8.</span>
        Three basic types of splints are rigid, soft, and ________.
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">Short Answer</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Complete this section with short written answers using the space provided.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Name four primary functions of the skeletal system.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        Name three major types of injuries to the musculoskeletal system.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        Name four signs of injury you should look for during a visual examination of a limb.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        What two questions should you ask a patient who has a limb injury?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_137" aria-label="Page 137" />
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        Name two ways to check for adequate circulation in an injured limb.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        Name three key signs and symptoms of a spinal injury.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        Name four things you should always check on an injured limb, both before and after splinting.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">8.</span>
        What are the steps for splinting a forearm injury with a SAM splint?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">9.</span>
        Describe three types of MOI, and give an example of each type.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">10.</span>
        Describe how you would splint an injury to the elbow.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">11.</span>
        Describe four signs or symptoms of a head injury.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_138" aria-label="Page 138" />
        <span class="fnz">12.</span>
        Describe the treatment for a head injury.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">13.</span>
        List three signs or symptoms of extremity injuries.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <h3 class="H2">You Make the Call</h3>
      <p class="TXL">The following scenarios provide an opportunity to explore concerns associated with patient management. Read the scenario and answer the question to the best of your ability.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        You are dispatched to the scene of a “long fall.” When you arrive, you find a 26-year-old man lying in the snow next to a ladder leaning against the house, and Christmas lights are hanging from the front of the house. His right leg is deformed. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        Your unit is dispatched to an altercation at a local bar. When you arrive, you see one man sitting outside the bar with a towel on his head. You notice the towel is covered with blood. The patient tells you he was struck in the head with a beer bottle. The bartender tells you that two men were fighting in the bar and that one of the men left the scene before your arrival. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
