<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>Childbirth-Critical Thinking</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <a id="sec38" />
        Critical Thinking
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Fill-in-the-Blank</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then complete the statement by filling in the missing words.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        The ________, or afterbirth, draws nutrients from the wall of the mother’s uterus.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        Your primary purpose is to ________ in the delivery of the newborn.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        A(n) ________, also called a spontaneous abortion, is the delivery of an incomplete or underdeveloped fetus.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        In the event of ________ births, another set of labor contractions will begin shortly after the delivery of the first infant.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        Any newborn weighing less than 5 pounds or delivered before 36 weeks of pregnancy is considered ________.
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_148" aria-label="Page 148" />
        Short Answer
      </h3>
      <p class="TXL">Complete this section with short written answers using the space provided.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Describe the three stages of labor.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        List four questions you should ask yourself when deciding if there is enough time to reach the hospital before delivery.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        What is the appropriate procedure for putting on sterile gloves?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        Name three important steps of care after a miscarriage.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <h3 class="H2">You Make the Call</h3>
      <p class="TXL">The following scenarios provide an opportunity to explore concerns associated with patient management. Read the scenario and answer the question to the best of your ability.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        You arrive on scene and find a 32-year-old woman who tells you she is 8½ months pregnant. This is her fifth pregnancy, and she is afraid she will not be able to make it to the hospital in time. She tells you her last labor lasted less than 2 hours. She is having frequent contractions. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        You arrive at the scene of a 27-year-old woman complaining of severe abdominal pain. The patient denies being pregnant, although she reports that she missed her last menstrual period. The patient is pale, with a rapid pulse and decreased blood pressure. What is most likely wrong with this patient, and what is the proper treatment?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
