<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>Transport Operations-Critical Thinking</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <a id="sec41" />
        Critical Thinking
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Fill-in-the-Blank</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then complete the statement by filling in the missing words.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        Most ________ facilities are responsible for dispatching fire, police, and EMS.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        During the response to the scene, keep all equipment secured so that it does not ________ someone in the event of a sudden stop or crash.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        Control the flow of traffic to ensure the safety of the rescuers, patients, and ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        ________ can provide lifesaving transport to an appropriate medical facility for patients with serious injuries.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        ________ are red signal flares and should not be used to mark a landing zone because they create a fire hazard.
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">Short Answer</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Complete this section with short written answers using the space provided.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        List six safety steps you should follow when working around an EMS helicopter.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        What are the guidelines (the “DO NOTs”) associated with helicopter operations?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <h3 class="H2">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_154" aria-label="Page 154" />
        You Make the Call
      </h3>
      <p class="TXL">The following scenarios provide an opportunity to explore concerns associated with patient management. Read the scenario and answer the question to the best of your ability.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        You arrive at the scene of a motor vehicle crash involving three vehicles. There are multiple patients with injuries. As several other EMRs are triaging patients, one of the responders yells for you to dispatch a helicopter and set up a landing zone. What actions should you take?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        You are the first to arrive at an intersection where a motor vehicle crash has just taken place. A crowd has gathered, and traffic seems to be stopped in both directions. You notice large debris in the roadway from vehicles and see fluids leaking as well. How should you handle this scene?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
