<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>Vehicle Extrication and Special Rescue-Critical Thinking</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <a id="sec43" />
        Critical Thinking
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Fill-in-the-Blank</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then complete the statement by filling in the missing words.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        At a swimming pool, dock, or supervised beach, a(n) ________ device may be available.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        The four steps of a water rescue are reach, throw, ________ , and go.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        If you are involved in a water rescue situation, your primary concerns for the patient must be to open a(n) ________, establish breathing and circulation, and stabilize spinal cord injuries.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        When turning a patient in the water, make sure to stabilize the ________ and ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        In confined space rescues, you must be careful of hazards, including insufficient ________ and the danger of collapse.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        In farm rescues, reporting of the emergency may be ________.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        When you see a person struggling in the water, your first impulse may be to ________ in to assist them, but this is a mistake.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">8.</span>
        If a swimmer has experienced ________ ________, quickly stabilize the head and neck, and then remove the patient from the water.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">9.</span>
        Assume that every vehicle involved in a crash is ________, unless you have manually ________ it.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">10.</span>
        When providing initial emergency care during vehicle extrication, leave the patients in the vehicle unless it is on ________ or they are otherwise in immediate danger.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">11.</span>
        The ________ route must be large enough to permit the safe removal of a packaged patient.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">12.</span>
        The third step in the extrication process is to ________ ________ to the patients.
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_159" aria-label="Page 159" />
        Short Answer
      </h3>
      <p class="TXL">Complete this section with short written answers using the space provided.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        List, in order, the four steps you should follow when attempting a water or ice rescue.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        Name three common signs or symptoms of diving injuries.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        List four confined spaces that you might encounter as an EMR.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        What are two deadly hazards you may face when involved in a confined space rescue?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        What are the seven steps of extrication?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <h3 class="H2">You Make the Call</h3>
      <p class="TXL">The following scenarios provide an opportunity to explore concerns associated with patient management. Read the scenario and answer the question to the best of your ability.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        You are dispatched to a farm for an injured person. When you arrive, you find the patient in a farm silo. He has fallen about 15 feet from the top of the silo and appears to be unconscious. A coworker of the patient says he thinks he had a heart attack. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_160" aria-label="Page 160" />
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        You are the first unit to arrive at the scene of a motor vehicle crash. As you approach the scene, you notice that the engine compartment of one of the involved vehicles is on fire and that two passengers are trapped inside. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
