<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032587327" />
    <title>Incident Management-Critical Thinking</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub.css" />
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chhead1">
      <h2 class="H1" id="chhead1">
        <a id="sec46" />
        Critical Thinking
      </h2>
      <h3 class="H2">Fill-in-the-Blank</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Read each item carefully and then complete the statement by filling in the missing words.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        A(n) ________ of ________ ________ is any agent designed to bring about mass death, casualties, and/or massive damage to property and infrastructure.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        An agent used to produce a concussion that destroys property and inflicts injury and death is a(n) ______.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        A personal ________ measures the amount of radioactive exposure received by an individual.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        Anthrax and smallpox are examples of ________ agents.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        A(n) ________ period is the time between a person’s exposure to a disease organism to the time the symptoms appear.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        The ________ triage system is designed to help you find the most seriously injured patients.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_165" aria-label="Page 165" />
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        The ________ ________ ________ lists the most common hazardous materials, their four-digit identification numbers, and the proper emergency actions to control the scene.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">8.</span>
        A(n) ________ ________ is a contaminated area where people can be exposed to sharp metal edges, broken glass, toxic substances, lethal rays, or the ignition or explosion of hazardous materials.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">9.</span>
        Patients requiring urgent care are identified with a(n) ________ tag during the triage process.
      </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">10.</span>
        A person who has died receives a(n) ________ tag during the triage process.
      </p>
      <h3 class="H2">Short Answer</h3>
      <p class="TXL">Complete this section with short written answers using the space provided.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        List five categories of chemical agents.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        Name four symptoms of exposure to an organophosphate insecticide or nerve agent.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">3.</span>
        Name three common signs of acute radiation sickness with low exposure.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">4.</span>
        What are the signs and symptoms of cyanide exposure?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">5.</span>
        Name five key points to communicate when declaring a disaster.
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_166" aria-label="Page 166" />
        <span class="fnz">6.</span>
        What does the acronym START stand for?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">7.</span>
        What are the five major benefits of the ICS?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <h3 class="H2">You Make the Call</h3>
      <p class="TXL">The following scenarios provide an opportunity to explore concerns associated with patient management. Read the scenario and answer the question to the best of your ability.</p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">1.</span>
        You respond to a frantic call from dispatch stating that white powder has been found at a downtown post office. You respond within a minute of dispatch and arrive 3 minutes later to find several employees screaming and running around with small particles of white powder on their clothes. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="hangn">
        <span class="fnz">2.</span>
        You are the first to arrive at a scene involving a motor vehicle crash between two cars and a bus. There are multiple people walking around with obvious injuries. The bus is on its side, and there is smoke coming from the engine compartment. What should you do?
      </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
      <p class="line"> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
