<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  xml:lang="en-us"
  lang="en-us">
  <head>
    <meta
      charset="utf-8" />
    <meta
      name="generatedBy"
      content="DAISY WordToEPUB 1.0.11 with Pandoc 3.1.1" />
    <title>Senior Consultants</title>
    <style></style>
    <link
      rel="stylesheet"
      type="text/css"
      href="../styles/wordtoepub.css" />
  </head>
  <body
    epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section
      id="senior-consultants"
      class="level1">
      <p>
        <span
          epub:type="pagebreak"
          role="doc-pagebreak"
          id="page1"
          aria-label="Page 1. "></span>
      </p>
      <p>
        <span
          id="WCAG-ch1-1.xhtml#piv"
          class="anchor"></span>
      </p>
      <h1>Senior Consultants</h1>
      <p>Sarah Witham Berdnarz is associate professor of geography at Texas A&amp;M University, where she has taught since 1988. She earned a Ph.D. in educational curriculum and instruction in 1992 from Texas A&amp;M University and has written extensively about geography literacy and education. Dr. Bednarz was an author of Geography for Life: National Geography Standards, 1994. In 1997 she received the International Excellence Award from the Texas A&amp;M University International Programs Office.</p>
      <p>Inés M. Miyares is associate professor of geography at Hunter College-City University of New York. Born in Havana, Cuba, and fluent in Spanish, Dr. Miyares has focused much of her scholarship on Latin America, immigration and refugee policy, and urban ethnic geography. She holds a Ph.D. in geography from Arizona State University. In 1999 Dr. Miyares was the recipient of the Hunter College Performance Excellence Award for excellence in teaching, research, scholarly writing, and service.</p>
      <p>Mark C. Schug is director of the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee Center for Economic Education. A 30-year veteran of middle school, high school, and university classrooms, Dr. Schug has been cited for excellence in teaching by the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee and the Minnesota Council on Economic Education. In addition to coauthoring eight national economics curriculum programs, Dr. Schug has spoken on economic issues to audiences throughout the world. Dr. Schug edited The Senior Economist for the National Council for Economics Education from 1986 to 1996.</p>
      <p>Charles S. White is associate professor in the School of Education at Boston University, where he teaches methods of instruction in social studies. Dr. White has written and spoken extensively on the role of technology in social studies education. He has received numerous awards for his scholarship, including the 1995 Federal Design Achievement Award from the National Endowment for the Arts, for the Teaching with Historic Places project. In 1997, Dr. White taught his Models of Teaching doctoral course at the Universidad San Francisco de Quito, Ecuador.</p>
      <p>Copyright © 2003 by McDougal Littell, a division of Houghton Mifflin Company. All rights reserved.</p>
      <p>The USA TODAY® service mark has been licensed by USA TODAY® for use for certain purposes by McDougal Littell, a division of Houghton Mifflin Company. USA TODAY® charts, articles, and photographs incorporated in these reading materials are displayed for informational and promotional purposes only. The USA TODAY® charts, articles, and photographs incorporated herein are solely for private, personal, and noncommercial use. Any other use of the USA TODAY® charts, articles, and photographs incorporated herein, without prior express written permission of USA TODAY®, is strictly prohibited.</p>
      <p>
        <span
          epub:type="pagebreak"
          role="doc-pagebreak"
          id="page2"
          aria-label="Page 2. "></span>Maps on pages A1-A25 © Rand McNally &amp; Company. All rights reserved.</p>
      <p>No part of this work may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and recording, or by any information storage or retrieval system without the prior written permission of McDougal Littell, a division of Houghton Mifflin Company, unless such copying is expressly permitted by federal copyright law. Send inquiries to Manager, Rights and Permissions, McDougal Littell, a division of Houghton Mifflin Company, P.O. Box 1667, Evanston, IL 60204.</p>
      <p>Acknowledgments begin on page R50.</p>
      <p>ISBN 0-618-16841-9</p>
      <p>Printed in the United States of America<br />
4 5 6 7 8 9 - VJM - 07 06 05 04 03</p>
      <p>
        <span
          id="WCAG-ch1-2.xhtml"
          class="anchor"></span>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>