<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032607731" />
    <title>Preface</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epub.css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section class="preface" id="s9781071900079.i902" epub:type="preface" role="doc-preface">
      <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexix" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxix" />
      <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxix">xix</span>
      <h1 class="head-title">Preface</h1>
      <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">
        <b>A</b>
        fter decades of using organizational behavior (OB) textbooks, I realized they were not communicating the right message for today’s students. They memorized theories and dutifully wrote them down on exams, but I felt they were missing out on how to apply these theories to become a better leader. Students want takeaway skills they can put into practice immediately. A new approach to teaching OB is needed, and this textbook shows students how to be effective leaders and managers in organizations. With a focus on leadership and management development, students will go beyond memorizing theories and will apply the most relevant concepts to effectively motivate followers, lead their teams, and champion organizational change.
      </p>
      <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">
        I have researched leadership for over 40 years. During 5 of those years, I was an acting dean at a major research university undergoing change. With this position, I put OB concepts into practice every day—I hired people, motivated them, set goals, and did annual performance appraisals. I helped employees, students, and faculty cope with organizational change. I am once again in an administrative leadership role as Associate Dean for Faculty in the Miami Herbert Business School. I look forward to learning about how trends in
        <i>organizational behavior</i>
        , such as remote work, the digital transformation, and artificial intelligence, are shaping the workplace. Based upon my research and the practical experience as an administrator with several direct reports, I began to look at my courses differently. I wanted to translate our rich evidence base into skills that managers can use every day. I also wanted to show how managers can become effective leaders through applications of course concepts. My process to achieve this was to start incorporating more skill-based assessments, role-plays, and team activities into each class meeting. Feedback from students was extremely positive, and many cited these exercises as high points in their learning experience in my course evaluations. I decided to write a textbook that reviewed OB theory and distilled the most relevant concepts for the development of effective leaders in organizations. Keeping a sharp focus on what the evidence base in OB supports, I continue to search for and developed exercises and activities that reinforce the key takeaways from each area I taught.
      </p>
      <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexx" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxx" />
        <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxx">xx</span>
        This “essentials” book is not a condensed version of a larger OB textbook. It was written with an eye toward the fundamentals every managerial leader needs to know and how to apply them. I used an evidence-based approach, making prescriptions based on research. Theories are reviewed critically, and students are encouraged to think critically about what they read. End-of-chapter assessments and activities make the linkage from theory to practice for students. For example, Chapter 9 includes an activity in which students role-play giving a performance appraisal. Based on my practical experience, performance appraisal is one of the most challenging scenarios a new manager faces. The activity is realistic and encourages students to practice the skill set of how to provide feedback in an effective way. This textbook fills another need by adopting an integrative OB textbook approach with a framework of leadership and management development throughout. Each section begins with a “map” of the field of OB that allows instructors to create integrated learning modules that can be used in courses of varying lengths (for example, 6-week courses and 15-week courses). References are made to other chapters in multiple places so students can see the connections across topics in OB. For example, Chapter 8 discusses core concepts in motivation and refers to the chapter immediately following, which focuses on the role of rewards in motivating followers. As a set, these two chapters comprise a learning module on “leaders as motivators.”
      </p>
      <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">The cases at the end of each chapter cover a wide range of organizational situations, including small businesses, hospitals, large corporations, and many other types of organizations. My colleagues and I have tested the cases and exercises with students, and they resonate with both MBAs and undergraduates. New cases have been developed on artificial intelligence, leadership in the NBA, Taylor Swift’s power, and the stress impacts on small businesses during COVID-19. Regardless of the career paths students choose, they will find these assessments and activities valuable as they develop leadership and management skills.</p>
      <section class="sect1" id="s9781071900079.i906">
        <h2 id="i906" class="title">Target Audiences</h2>
        <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">I have written this book to be appropriate for upper-level undergraduate courses and MBA core courses in OB. Case studies and exercises will prepare students at all levels for today’s workplace. The content and activities have been carefully written so students can respond to discussion questions and assessments. For undergraduates, the role-plays and team activities at the end of the chapters are particularly valuable. This experiential approach to learning supports the application of OB fundamentals, and the activities are interesting and fun. Textbook reviews have also indicated that this textbook will work very well in industrial/organizational psychology courses as well as courses in higher education leadership. In writing the textbook, I kept in mind that some OB courses are being offered in hybrid or online formats. The features of this textbook support these formats (for example, all boxed inserts, case studies, and activities have discussion questions that can be answered by students and submitted as assignments).</p>
        <section class="sect2" id="s9781071900079.i907">
          <h3 id="i907" class="title">Approach</h3>
          <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">I always wanted a concise OB textbook that did certain things for my students. This textbook was written with three guiding principles:</p>
          <ol type="1">
            <li>
              An
              <i xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">evidence-based management approach</i>
              to the field of OB so practice recommendations are grounded in research.
            </li>
            <li>
              Emphasis on
              <i xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">critical thinking</i>
              in Chapter 1 and throughout the textbook so students can evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of research before they move to practice applications.
            </li>
            <li>
              <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxi" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxi" />
              <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxi">xxi</span>
              A focus on
              <i xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">leadership development</i>
              for managers—so rather than just memorizing theories, students apply them to cases and a variety of activities at the end of each chapter, including activities, role-plays, and case studies.
            </li>
          </ol>
        </section>
        <section class="sect2" id="s9781071900079.i909">
          <h3 id="i909" class="title">Evidence-Based Management</h3>
          <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Hundreds of references to classic and current OB research are used in this textbook to build a new way of looking at the research as the foundation for leadership development. The evidence-based management approach is described in detail in Chapter 1. The coverage of research is comprehensive, with a focus on the most important topics managers need to become effective leaders. These are the topics I have selected to teach for over 40 years to undergraduate, MBA, and executive MBA students. This textbook offers a research-based approach that translates theory into practice, focusing on the contemporary approaches rather than the historical/classical approaches. Most students are less interested in historical development of theory and more interested in theories they can apply to be more effective leaders. There is far less emphasis on theories that don’t have solid research support than other textbooks that I have used and read. In fairness, certain topics are noted for their contribution to broad-based understanding of OB, followed by a critical assessment of the research support.</p>
        </section>
        <section class="sect2" id="s9781071900079.i910">
          <h3 id="i910" class="title">Critical Thinking</h3>
          <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Over the years, I have heard colleagues lament, “Our students don’t think critically.” One day while teaching, it occurred to me that I had never actually included a lecture on critical thinking—what it is and why it is important. It wasn’t in my OB textbook. I researched critical thinking and started to lecture on it in my class lectures. I began to see a difference in how my students approached the material in my courses. The quality of classroom discussion improved, and students began to really discuss strengths and weaknesses of theory and develop relevant examples as applications. Their answers on essay questions went beyond memorization to demonstration of understanding concepts, plus providing examples to show they could apply them as managers.</p>
          <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">It just makes sense that we teach our students about critical thinking, and this is a major theme of this textbook. Critical thinking is defined and discussed in detail in Chapter 1 so students will understand what it is and why it is important for a managerial leader to think critically.</p>
        </section>
        <section class="sect2" id="s9781071900079.i911">
          <h3 id="i911" class="title">Developing Principled Leaders</h3>
          <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">
            <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxii" />
            <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxii">xxii</span>
            I have an extensive background studying the importance of leadership within organizations, in addition to holding positions of leadership at several points in my career. Leadership core concepts are covered in the textbook in Chapter 6; however, while I believe this is foundational to a leadership and management development approach to OB, this chapter might be assigned earlier as many OB instructors do (this book is written to have such flexibility). In addition to a full chapter on leadership and ethical leadership highlights, each chapter includes a section discussing leadership implications in the context of the topic being discussed, as well as end-of-chapter activities designed to enhance students’ understanding of leadership and their own leadership styles and tendencies. In this edition of the textbook, a theme throughout is the development of principled leaders with a focus on ethical decision-making. Examples of this theme throughout the textbook follow. The Chapter 1 opening discusses CEO departures due to ethics scandals. In Chapter 7, the What’s #Trending in OB box discusses “Power and Ethics: Making Tough Choices.” The Research in Action box for Chapter 12 (Communication) discusses artificial intelligence-mediated communication (AI-MC) and ethical challenges, including individuals’ privacy. Chapter 15 includes the Research in Action box “Ethical Leadership During Organizational Change.”
          </p>
        </section>
        <section class="sect2" id="s9781071900079.i912">
          <h3 id="i912" class="title">Trends in Organizational Behavior</h3>
          <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Along with the three guiding principles of evidence-based management, critical thinking, and leadership development, this textbook also touches upon emerging topics in OB. Throughout the chapters, there is an emphasis on globalization and cross-cultural OB. For example, cross-cultural differences in stress are compared in Chapter 15. Finally, in a number of places, positive psychology is integrated into the presentation of OB topics. For example, mindfulness is discussed as a coaching strategy for managing emotions and moods in the leadership implications section of Chapter 3. A boxed feature, What’s #Trending in OB?, is included in each chapter to highlight a current trend in the field that people are talking about (often on social media). For example, the Chapter 8 box, “Putting the Past Behind You: Performance Resets and Motivation,” discusses cutting-edge research on how people can let go of poor performance, which hinders their future performance. Throughout the textbook, discussion of artificial intelligence impacts on the workplace have been highlighted. For example, in Chapter 12, a boxed feature on AI-mediated communication has been added. Expanded discussion of the digital transformation and remote work has been incorporated throughout the textbook.</p>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section class="sect1" id="s9781071900079.i913">
        <h2 id="i913" class="title">Features</h2>
        <section class="sect2" id="s9781071900079.i914">
          <h3 id="i914" class="title">Learning Objectives</h3>
          <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">The learning objectives included at the beginning of each chapter highlight the key topics covered in the chapter and note the skills students will develop after reading. These learning objectives are directly tied to main headings within the chapter and can be used to measure and assess students’ understanding of chapter material.</p>
        </section>
        <section class="sect2" id="s9781071900079.i915">
          <h3 id="i915" class="title">Chapter-Opening Vignette</h3>
          <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">
            <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxiii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxiii" />
            <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxiii">xxiii</span>
            Each chapter begins with a research-based challenge facing managers, based upon empirical data, often from national polls or consulting firms. For example, Chapter 7 discusses what it feels like to have power, based on research. These highlights are intended to get the students’ attention so they immediately see the relevance of the material in the chapter that follows. Chapter 11 highlights the costs of workplace conflict in terms of both dollars and employee well-being. Chapter 15 opens with a discussion of leading change in a VUCA world—that is, the volatile, uncertain, complex, and ambiguous one we live in today.
          </p>
        </section>
        <section class="sect2" id="s9781071900079.i916">
          <h3 id="i916" class="title">What’s #Trending in OB? and Research in Action Boxes</h3>
          <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Within each chapter, there are two types of boxed inserts to enhance the application of the material to the student’s development as a leader—What’s #Trending in OB? and Research in Action. What’s #Trending in OB? highlights current applications of OB research in real organizations or consulting examples. For example, in Chapter 5, the What’s #Trending in OB? box discusses the use of artificial intelligence to improve leaders’ decision-making. Research in Action vignettes demonstrate how OB research translates to leadership practice. An example is a short discussion of current research on the rise of workplace incivility that asks the question of whether we need to “send in Miss Manners.” Included in each of these boxed features are discussion questions that will stimulate the student’s thinking on the application and can be used for in-class discussion. These discussion questions may be assigned prior to class to encourage students to read and apply the highlighted practice and research in these inserts, and the boxed inserts can be integrated into class discussions to show how practice and research use OB theories. For online learning, the discussion questions can be assigned for discussion board posts.</p>
        </section>
        <section class="sect2" id="s9781071900079.i917">
          <h3 id="i917" class="title">Critical Thinking Questions</h3>
          <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">To support critical thinking throughout the course, critical thinking questions are integrated within the textbook. These questions encourage students to pause, think, and then apply the material just covered to an organizational challenge for leaders. For instructors teaching online courses, these questions can be assigned to check the student comprehension of assigned textbook readings.</p>
        </section>
        <section class="sect2" id="s9781071900079.i918">
          <h3 id="i918" class="title">Key Terms</h3>
          <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Key terms featured in each chapter have been set in color throughout the text. Students will be able to quickly search for and locate these key terms.</p>
        </section>
        <section class="sect2" id="s9781071900079.i919">
          <h3 id="i919" class="title">The Toolkit</h3>
          <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Each chapter contains a “toolkit” in which the student will apply the concepts covered within that chapter. Each chapter’s toolkit contains the following features:</p>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <b xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Key Terms</b>
              highlighted within the chapter.
            </li>
            <li>
              The
              <b xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Toolkit Activities</b>
              , which are team exercises or role-plays in which the students interact with other students to apply the material. I have used these exercises in my classes, and I am pleased to provide them all in one package so you don’t have to search for them and copy them for class.
            </li>
            <li>
              <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxiv" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxiv" />
              <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxiv">xxiv</span>
              A short
              <b xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Case Study</b>
              illustrating one or more concepts from the chapter. These cases are followed by discussion questions that can be assigned prior to in-class case discussion.
            </li>
            <li>
              At least one interactive
              <b xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Self-Assessment</b>
              , including personality tests or leadership assessments. Self-assessments are available online only in the Sage Vantage platform.
            </li>
          </ul>
        </section>
        <section class="sect2" id="s9781071900079.i921">
          <h3 id="i921" class="title">New to This Edition</h3>
          <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">
            For this edition, I retained the features that have made
            <i>Essentials of Organizational Behavior: An Evidence-Based Approach</i>
            successful in its third edition, while updating with current research and strengthening the evidence-based approach:
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <i xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Updated chapter scenarios</i>
              —As in the last edition, all the chapters start with a scenario that features research on an interesting real-world problem based on research or practice.
            </li>
            <li>
              <i xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Updated Leadership Implications</i>
              —The Leadership Implications at the end of each chapter have been retained and expanded.
            </li>
            <li>
              <i xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Critical Thinking Questions</i>
              —Critical Thinking Questions in the chapters have been revised or added to reflect changes in the content of the chapters.
            </li>
            <li>
              <i xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Updated What’s #Trending in OB? and Research in Action boxes</i>
              —Updated boxes on What’s #Trending in OB? have been added for each chapter. Research in Action boxes have been retained and updated or replaced as features.
            </li>
            <li>
              <i xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">New Toolkit Activities</i>
              —Both instructors and students responded positively to the Toolkit Activities, and additional Toolkit items have been added. Based upon feedback from instructors (particularly in the online environment), Discussion Questions have been added for all Toolkit Activities and Case Studies.
            </li>
            <li>
              <i xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">New and updated Case Studies</i>
              —Cases have been either replaced or expanded in length. Cases cover current issues in organizational behavior such as “Perspective Taking: Health Versus Wealth During the COVID-19 Pandemic.”
            </li>
          </ul>
        </section>
        <section class="sect2" id="s9781071900079.i923">
          <h3 id="i923" class="title">Updated Chapters</h3>
          <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Each chapter has been thoroughly updated to include new developments, new scholarship, and recent events in organizational behavior.</p>
          <section class="sect3" id="s9781071900079.i924">
            <h4 id="i924" class="title">Chapter 1: What Is Organizational Behavior?</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>Updated opening vignette on the crises in organizations leading to increased CEO turnover.</li>
              <li>Updated Research in Action box focusing on the application of evidence-based management (EBM) to increase donations to universities. New example of EBM in practice added.</li>
              <li>
                <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxv" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxv" />
                <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxv">xxv</span>
                Updated coverage of outcomes in OB that include thriving.
              </li>
              <li>New research on “The Great Resignation” and the workplace following the COVID-19 pandemic.</li>
              <li>Key trends and new research on employee well-being.</li>
              <li>Updated What’s #Trending in OB? box on “Organizational Behavior in the Gig Economy.”</li>
              <li>New Case Study on “Ghosting in the Workplace.”</li>
            </ul>
          </section>
          <section class="sect3" id="s9781071900079.i926">
            <h4 id="i926" class="title">Chapter 2: Personality and Person–Environment Fit</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>Updated opening vignette on the personality effect in Unicorns (a privately held start-up company with a value of over $1 billion) with a profile of Adam Neumann at WeWork.</li>
              <li>New example of how a company might use the MBTI in practice.</li>
              <li>New example of how the Big Five personality traits apply to teamwork.</li>
              <li>New research that includes TikTok added to What’s #Trending in OB? box on “Personality Traits and Social Media Addiction.”</li>
              <li>New research on the Dark Triad.</li>
              <li>New example of self-monitoring at work.</li>
              <li>New research on resilience, which is positive adaptation to adversity, during the COVID-19 pandemic.</li>
              <li>New research on psychological capital during the global COVID-19 pandemic.</li>
              <li>New example of good person–job fit.</li>
            </ul>
          </section>
          <section class="sect3" id="s9781071900079.i928">
            <h4 id="i928" class="title">Chapter 3: Emotions and Moods</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>Updated research in opening vignette, “Does Lack of Sleep Make You Grumpy?” with discussion of the negative effects of lack of sleep during the COVID-19 pandemic.</li>
              <li>New research on moods is discussed. An example to clarify the distinction between emotions and moods added.</li>
              <li>New research on affective events theory and the effects of affect and mood on performance added, discussing the role of leader emotions on the quality of leader–member relationships. New research on affective job spin.</li>
              <li>Updated research on moral emotions.</li>
              <li>New research on the broaden-and-build model, including discussion of mindfulness.</li>
              <li>
                <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxvi" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxvi" />
                <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxvi">xxvi</span>
                Updated resesarch on the effects of affect on creativity during the COVID-19 pandemic added to the Research in Action box. New discussion question.
              </li>
              <li>New research on gratitude at work.</li>
              <li>New research on emotional labor during the COVID-19 pandemic.</li>
              <li>New research on emotional intelligence and leadership added.</li>
              <li>New research on emotional regulation.</li>
              <li>Updated research added to the What’s #Trending in OB? box “Is It OK to Cry at Work?”</li>
              <li>New research on social contagion effects in social media.</li>
              <li>New research on mindful coaching.</li>
            </ul>
          </section>
          <section class="sect3" id="s9781071900079.i930">
            <h4 id="i930" class="title">Chapter 4: Attitudes and Job Satisfaction</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>Updated opening vignette with 2022 Conference Board job satisfaction report data (and a new figure).</li>
              <li>A new workplace example of cognitive dissonance.</li>
              <li>New research on generational differences, gender, and trans employee job satisfaction.</li>
              <li>Updated Research in Action box, “More Than Job Satisfaction: What’s Your Calling?” New research on occupational calling during the COVID-19 pandemic added (e.g., health care and technology). New discussion question added.</li>
              <li>New discussion of income satiation.</li>
              <li>New examples of exit, voice, loyalty, and neglect approach to job dissatisfaction added, as well as new research.</li>
              <li>New research added to the What’s #Trending in OB? Box “Your Attitude May Derail Your Job Search.” New discussion question.</li>
              <li>New research on job security and organizational commitment during the COVID-19 pandemic.</li>
              <li>New research on job involvement during the COVID-19 pandemic.</li>
              <li>Expanded and updated research on employee engagement and two new figures added from Gallup and HR.com added.</li>
              <li>New research on perceived organizational support during COVID-19.</li>
              <li>New example of creating meaning at work (leadership implications).</li>
            </ul>
          </section>
          <section class="sect3" id="s9781071900079.i932">
            <h4 id="i932" class="title">Chapter 5: Perception, Decision-Making, and Problem-Solving</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>
                <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxvii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxvii" />
                <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxvii">xxvii</span>
                New research for the chapter opening, “Would You Be Happier if You Were Richer?”
              </li>
              <li>New research on cognitive bias. Research on biases toward the skills of remote workers.</li>
              <li>New research on the availability bias and social media.</li>
              <li>New research on contrast effects; example of contrast effects at work.</li>
              <li>New research on the halo effect.</li>
              <li>Examples of how decision-making affects performance updated with new “make-or-break” decisions, including Facebook, Star Wars, Floyd Mayweather, and Harry Potter.</li>
              <li>New discussion of VUCA environments (volatile, uncertain, complex, and ambiguous).</li>
              <li>New research on prospect theory during COVID-19.</li>
              <li>Example of a wicked organizational problem.</li>
              <li>New research on using AI in decision-making added to the What’s #Trending in OB? Box “Using Big Data Analytics to Improve Decisions.” New discussion question.</li>
              <li>New research on hindsight bias during the COVID-19 pandemic.</li>
              <li>New research on the “dark side” of creativity.</li>
              <li>New research on AI and ethics added to the Leadership Implications focusing on making ethical decisions.</li>
              <li>Case Study updated: “Making Decisions Using Artificial Intelligence at Lufthansa.” New example of the AI assistant Sifty that makes booking trips more efficient.</li>
            </ul>
          </section>
          <section class="sect3" id="s9781071900079.i934">
            <h4 id="i934" class="title">Chapter 6: Leadership</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>Updated opening vignette with new 20239 Edelman Trust Barometer data (and a new figure).</li>
              <li>New research on the need for leadership adaptability during COVID-19.</li>
              <li>New section: Implicit Leadership Theory.</li>
              <li>New research on leader-member exchange and practical implications.</li>
              <li>New research added to the What’s #Trending in OB? Box, “Is Narcissism Good for Business?”</li>
              <li>New research on proactivity added to the Research in Action Box. New discussion question.</li>
              <li>
                <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxviii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxviii" />
                <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxviii">xxviii</span>
                New research on inclusive leadership.
              </li>
              <li>New research on followership, including followership during COVID-19.</li>
              <li>New critical thinking questions on attributions in leadership.</li>
              <li>New research on trust during COVID-19. New review and summary of research on trust repair.</li>
              <li>New figure for the Full Range of Leadership model.</li>
              <li>New Leadership Implications: Leading Through Paradox, highlighting paradoxical leadership.</li>
              <li>New Case Study: “Cynt Marshall: Game Changing” (CEO of the Dallas Mavericks).</li>
            </ul>
          </section>
          <section class="sect3" id="s9781071900079.i936">
            <h4 id="i936" class="title">Chapter 7: Power and Politics</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>Opening updated on what it’s like to have power.</li>
              <li>New research on AI and the erosion of expert power.</li>
              <li>New research on influence tactics.</li>
              <li>New research added to Research in Action Box on power and voice. New discussion question.</li>
              <li>New research on impression management in virtual work environments.</li>
              <li>New research on perceptions of politics.</li>
              <li>New research on benefits of being ethical to the What’s #Trending in OB? Box, “Power and Ethics: Making Tough Choices.”</li>
              <li>New Case Study: “Taylor Swift’s Power in the Music Industry.”</li>
            </ul>
          </section>
          <section class="sect3" id="s9781071900079.i938">
            <h4 id="i938" class="title">Chapter 8: Motivation: Core Concepts</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>Updated research on grit during COVID-19 in chapter opening.</li>
              <li>New review of Herzberg’s theory of motivation.</li>
              <li>New research on goal-setting streaks. New research on regulatory goal focus and learning goals.</li>
              <li>New research on job characteristics: cross-cultural differences and COVID-19 changes. New research on job redesign using AI.</li>
              <li>New research on job crafting and lowered stress at work.</li>
              <li>New research on equity and organizational justice.</li>
              <li>
                <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxix" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxix" />
                <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxix">xxix</span>
                Updated research in Research in Action Box, “Who Cares About Fairness?”
              </li>
              <li>New What’s #Trending in OB? box, “Putting the Past Behind You: Performance Resets and Motivation.”</li>
              <li>New research on the passionate Pygmalion effect.</li>
              <li>New research on motivation to lead added to Leadership Implications.</li>
            </ul>
          </section>
          <section class="sect3" id="s9781071900079.i940">
            <h4 id="i940" class="title">Chapter 9: Motivation: Applications</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>Updated research on the meaning of money and gift exchange in chapter opening, including discussion of the “warm glow” effect.</li>
              <li>New research on organizational behavior modification using AI.</li>
              <li>New discussion of problems with extrinsic rewards added to the Research in Action Box, “Why the Carrot and Stick May Not Always Work.”</li>
              <li>New example of self-deterimination.</li>
              <li>
                Updated research on pay dispersion, including new key term,
                <i xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">pay information disclosure</i>
                .
              </li>
              <li>Steps for effective performance management list.</li>
              <li>New research added to the What’s Trending in OB? box, “New Directions in Performance Reviews: Beyond the Bell Curve.”</li>
              <li>Discussion of the unique challenges faced by MNCs in performance management.</li>
              <li>List of problems with feedback added. New research on feedback seeking.</li>
              <li>Updated discussion of remote working with discussion of the shift due to COVID-19.</li>
              <li>New Case Study, “Motivating a Remote Workforce With Buffer Example.”</li>
            </ul>
          </section>
          <section class="sect3" id="s9781071900079.i942">
            <h4 id="i942" class="title">Chapter 10: Group Processes and Teams</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>
                Updated chapter opening, “Does Trust Impact Team Performance?” with new research and new key term,
                <i xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">team resilience</i>
                .
              </li>
              <li>
                New research on team norms and new key term,
                <i xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">team reflection</i>
                .
              </li>
              <li>New research on extra effort in teams.</li>
              <li>New research on team innovation.</li>
              <li>New research on team coaching and cohesion added to Research in Action box.</li>
              <li>New examples of groupthink.</li>
              <li>
                <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxx" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxx" />
                <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxx">xxx</span>
                New discussion of virtual brainstorming.
              </li>
              <li>New research added to What’s #Trending in OB? box, “Distributed Virtual Work Teams.”</li>
              <li>New research and discussion on the digital transformation.</li>
              <li>New discussion of the challenges of diversity in teams.</li>
              <li>New Leadership Implications: The Team of Teams Approach with new Figure.</li>
            </ul>
          </section>
          <section class="sect3" id="s9781071900079.i944">
            <h4 id="i944" class="title">Chapter 11: Managing Conflict and Negotiation</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>Updated opening vignette with new statistics on the costs of workplace conflict.</li>
              <li>Updated research on why managers are not equipped to handle conflict.</li>
              <li>New research on task and relationship conflict. New research on emotional intelligence and conflict resolution.</li>
              <li>New list of warning signs of dysfunctional conflict added to the What’s #Trending in OB? box, “Minefields in Managing Organizational Conflict.”</li>
              <li>New research on incivility, workplace aggression, and abusive supervision.</li>
              <li>New research on workplace violence, including violence against health care workers during COVID-19.</li>
              <li>New research on conflict resolution in teams.</li>
              <li>New discussion of the use of AI for dispute resolution.</li>
              <li>New discussion of competencies needed for negotiation and new figure.</li>
              <li>Expanded discussion of power in negotiation.</li>
              <li>New research on emotions and negotiation.</li>
              <li>New research on cross-cultural negotiation.</li>
              <li>New research on perspective taking in conflict resolution and negotiation added to Leadership Implications.</li>
              <li>New research added to the Case Study, “Perspective Taking: Health Versus Wealth During the COVID-19 Pandemic.”</li>
            </ul>
          </section>
          <section class="sect3" id="s9781071900079.i946">
            <h4 id="i946" class="title">Chapter 12: Organizational Communication</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>New research added to opening vignette on “thin-slicing” includes a discussion of perceptions of personal networks after a brief thin-slice video.</li>
              <li>Cautionary notes on the Shannon-Weaver model of communication added.</li>
              <li>
                <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxxi" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxxi" />
                <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxxi">xxxi</span>
                Updated research on communication apprehension (CA) during COVID-19 finding that those with CA are more comfortable communicating online.
              </li>
              <li>New research on language proficiency among international students.</li>
              <li>New research on active listening by leaders.</li>
              <li>New research on communication networks during COVID-19. New discussion of Zoom fatigue.</li>
              <li>Updated research on crisis communication during the COVID-19 pandemic added to the What’s #Trending in OB? box, “Organizational Communication During a Crisis.”</li>
              <li>New research on how communication flows lead to employee loyalty.</li>
              <li>New research on grapevine communication after a coworker is terminated.</li>
              <li>New Research in Action Box, “AI-Mediated Communication.”</li>
              <li>New section, “The Digital Workplace,” discusses the “dark side” of the digital workplace.</li>
              <li>New research on text messaging, social networking, and videoconferencing, including updated statistics on usage.</li>
              <li>New research on cross-cultural communication, including a new table illustrating differences and similarities in nonverbal communication in China and the United States.</li>
              <li>Updated Leadership Implications includes discussion of framing meaning during the COVID-19 pandemic using the Norwegian government example.</li>
            </ul>
          </section>
          <section class="sect3" id="s9781071900079.i948">
            <h4 id="i948" class="title">Chapter 13: Uniqueness and Employee Belonging</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>Updated opening vignette on trends impacting belonging in organizations with new research including trends on progress in wage disparity.</li>
              <li>New research on challenges and benefits of uniqueness and belonging.</li>
              <li>New research review of team deep-level diversity.</li>
              <li>Updated research on generations in the workplace.</li>
              <li>New research added to the What’s #Trending in OB? box, “Managing Someone Older Than Yourself.”</li>
              <li>Expanded discussion of the contributions and limitations of the Hofstede model.</li>
              <li>New research on cultural tightness–looseness impacts on mortality rates during COVID-19.</li>
              <li>New research on cultural intelligence impacts on virtual teams.</li>
              <li>
                <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxxii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxxii" />
                <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxxii">xxxii</span>
                New research review of personality impacts on expatriate adjustment. Also research on expatriate family adjustments.
              </li>
              <li>New Leadership Implications with updated Procter &amp; Gamble mission statement.</li>
            </ul>
          </section>
          <section class="sect3" id="s9781071900079.i950">
            <h4 id="i950" class="title">Chapter 14: Organizational Culture</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>New statistics on Warby Parker added to the opening vignette, “The Team Culture at Warby Parker.”</li>
              <li>Updated research on organizational growth mindset, the relationship of organizational culture to organizational performance, and socialization.</li>
              <li>New figure for Schein’s Levels of Culture.</li>
              <li>New discussion of remote work policy at Buffer added to the What’s #Trending in OB? box on transparent organizational cultures. New discussion question on remote work.</li>
              <li>New research on clan and adhocracy cultures. New discussion of cybersecurity subculture.</li>
              <li>New research on socialization and onboarding of remote workers during COVID-19.</li>
              <li>Symbols employed during the COVID-19 pandemic, such as surgical masks.</li>
              <li>New discussion of emotional culture.</li>
              <li>New Research in Action Box, “Benefits of Innovation Climates.”</li>
              <li>Expanded discussion new research on ethical climate.</li>
              <li>Updated Toolkit Activity 14.1 to compare organizational cultures and Goldman Sachs and Patagonia. New discussion question.</li>
              <li>Updates to the Case Study, “Changing the Culture at Boeing,” discussing the 737 MAX crisis. New discussion question.</li>
            </ul>
          </section>
          <section class="sect3" id="s9781071900079.i952">
            <h4 id="i952" class="title">Chapter 15: Leading Change and Stress Management</h4>
            <ul>
              <li>New statistics added to the opening vignette, “Leading Change in a VUCA (Volatile, Uncertain, Complex, Ambiguous) World,” with quote on VUCA from 7-11 CEO. Discussion of the impacts of AI.</li>
              <li>Example of revolutionary change of Ford Motor Company’s shift to producing affordable electric cars.</li>
              <li>Example of planned change by Starbucks to eliminate single-use cups.</li>
              <li>Updated review of research on organizational development.</li>
              <li>Discussion of appreciative inquiry during COVID-19.</li>
              <li>
                <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxxiii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxxiii" />
                <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxxiii">xxxiii</span>
                Added discussion of green human resource management to the section on sustainability.
              </li>
              <li>New research on workplace stress during COVID-19.</li>
              <li>New statistics on workplace stress and employee mental health.</li>
              <li>New figure—Pre- and Post-Pandemic Stress Level Comparison by Age—as well as statistics on stress during the pandemic.</li>
              <li>New research on global stress and coping during the COVID-19 pandemic.</li>
              <li>New research added to the What’s #Trending in OB? Box, “The Sunday Scaries,” which describes how worry, fear, and anxiety about the upcoming workweek begin for some people on Sunday afternoon.</li>
              <li>New data on employee assistance programs.</li>
              <li>Updated Leadership Implications section, including research on leader communication during COVID-19.</li>
              <li>Updated Case Study, “Organizational Change at Amazon,” with new statistics and discussion of Project Kuiper, which will create a global satellite broadband network.</li>
              <li>New Case Study, “Stress Impacts on Small Businesses During COVID-19.”</li>
            </ul>
          </section>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section class="sect1" id="s9781071900079.i956">
        <h2 id="i956" class="title">Additional Teaching Resources</h2>
        <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">
          Visit
          <b>collegepublishing.sagepub.com</b>
          and navigate to the Resources tab on your book’s page to find the teaching materials designed to accompany this textbook. On this site, you will find this array of materials that will save you time and to help you keep students engaged:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <b xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Learning management system</b>
            cartridges that easily integrate with your course management system so student test results and graded assignments seamlessly flow into your gradebook
          </li>
          <li>
            <b xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Test banks</b>
            , aligned to Bloom’s Taxonomy, that provide a diverse range of test items, including multiple choice, true/false, and essay questions
          </li>
          <li>
            <b xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Lecture notes</b>
            that provide an outline and the key concepts in each chapter to aid in lecture preparation
          </li>
          <li>
            <b xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">
              PowerPoint
              <sup>®</sup>
              slides
            </b>
            that offer a flexible, accessible, and customizable solution for creating multimedia lectures
          </li>
          <li>
            <b xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Tables and figures from the book</b>
            are available to support lecture preparation and class discussions
          </li>
          <li>
            <b xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">Sample course syllabi</b>
            include suggested models for structuring your course
            <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxxiv" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxxiv" />
            <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxxiv">xxxiv</span>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
