<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032607731" />
    <title>Acknowledgments</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epub.css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section class="acknowledgements" id="s9781071900079.i958" epub:type="acknowledgments" role="doc-acknowledgments">
      <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxxv" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxxv" />
      <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxxv">xxxv</span>
      <h1 id="i958" class="title">Acknowledgments</h1>
      <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">
        <b>W</b>
        ith the third edition of this textbook, I presented the foundations of OB, plus what I see as trends for the future of work. The third edition was literally at the copy-editing stage when the COVID-19 pandemic crisis hit our world. I realized that the pandemic would change the way we work forever, and I was not satisfied with where the book was at that stage. I updated the book in many ways, such as expanding the discussion of virtual teams and including new examples and statistics on stress before and during COVID-19. I wrote a new case study called “Perspective Taking: Health Versus Wealth During the COVID-19 Pandemic.” The discussion of organizational change in Chapter 15 was updated to discuss the organizational impacts of life-threatening events. The pandemic was a challenge personally, as I had to adjust to offer my courses on Zoom, and I learned a great deal. I adjusted the textbook to be even more attentive to the needs of faculty who teach online and in hybrid formats. This was a challenge, but it was also an opportunity to make this textbook truly up-to-date with an eye toward the future. Now, this fourth edition of the textbook has incorporated discussion and research of the long-term trends of the COVID-19 pandemic on the workplace, including remote work, increased interest in work–life balance, and employee mental health as examples. Also, in the past few years we have seen the increased emergence of artificial intelligence (AI), which will have profound impacts on the workplace, so I have incorporated discussion of AI throughout the textbook.
      </p>
      <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">With the publications of all editions of this book, it has been a joy to bring my perspective on the field of OB as an integrated and evidence-based foundation for the development of principled leaders to more students. I have reflected on the field of OB and realized that we have so very much to offer our students because of the research we have done. I am in awe of my OB colleagues around the world for their theoretical insights and their rigorous research. It is with gratitude and humility that I am offering this book to instructors and their students.</p>
      <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxxvi" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxxvi" />
        <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxxvi">xxxvi</span>
        There are many people to thank who have supported the writing of this textbook. I cannot express my gratitude enough for all of the authors and publishers that graciously allowed me to reprint their material in this book. I thank my principal mentors, George Graen and Belle Rose Ragins, for their support and insights throughout my career. I offer thanks to all of my colleagues in OB (too numerous to mention) who provide me with feedback and support on everything I do. My OB colleagues at the University of Miami read drafts of the table of contents and chapters and offered suggestions for the toolkits (and allowed me to test them in their courses): Valeria Alterman, Cecily Cooper, Marie Dasborough, Karen Harris, Luke Hedden, Beth Miller, and Marina Portnoy. A very special thanks to my department chair and role model, Linda Neider, for her unending support of my career. My family and friends suffered through my periods of being a hermit and patiently listened to me talk about this book. I thank my family, Laura Scandura Rea, Sandi Kennedy, Deanne Julifs, and Tommy Scandura, for always believing in me—and not just with respect to this textbook. I would also like to thank my friends for their practical, down-to-earth advice and for making me laugh at just the right times. Last, but in no way least, I thank the team at Sage. Cassie Carey kept track of permissions and numerous other details. I am also grateful to Maggie Stanley and Lily Norton for their support throughout the project. They encouraged me to “hear” reviewer feedback but always respected my vison for the book. Thanks also to Jennifer Haldeman (marketing manager), Candice Harman (cover designer), Syeda Aina Rahat Ali (production editor), and Amy Hanquist Harris (copy editor) at Sage for their excellent work on this project. Without all of these people in their various ways of supporting me, this book would not have been possible.
      </p>
      <p xmlns:r="http://www.rsuitecms.com/rsuite/ns/metadata" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink">I am grateful to the reviewers of this textbook who applied their own critical perspectives to the chapters. They made this textbook better in every way, and I learned from their insightful comments and suggestions what additional research evidence to include. Thanks to the following reviewers for their participation in all stages of this book’s development:</p>
      <section class="sect1" id="s9781071900079.i962">
        <h2 id="i962" class="title">Reviewers for the first edition:</h2>
        <ul>
          <li>Joel Baldomir, Marist College</li>
          <li>Nancy Sutton Bell, University of Montevallo</li>
          <li>James W. Bishop, New Mexico State University</li>
          <li>Michael Buckley, University of Oklahoma</li>
          <li>Carrie Bulger, Quinnipiac University</li>
          <li>Jim Byran, Fresno Pacific University</li>
          <li>Nicholas Capozzoli, Indiana University Kokomo</li>
          <li>Eric Chen, University of Saint Joseph</li>
          <li>Cecily Cooper, University of Miami</li>
          <li>Geni D. Cowan, California State University, Sacramento</li>
          <li>Minerva Cruz, Kentucky State University</li>
          <li>Roger Dean, Washington &amp; Lee University</li>
          <li>Roselynn S. Dow, Empire State College</li>
          <li>Mary Lynn Engel, Saint Joseph’s College</li>
          <li>Leon Fraser, Rutgers University</li>
          <li>Mary Ann Gall, Franklin Pierce University</li>
          <li>Issam Ghazzawi, University of La Verne</li>
          <li>Bruce Gilstrap, University of Southern Mississippi</li>
          <li>Daniel E. Hallock, University of North Alabama</li>
          <li>Marie Hansen, Husson University</li>
          <li>Nell Hartley, Robert Morris University</li>
          <li>Carol Harvey, Suffolk University</li>
          <li>Chan Hellman, University of Oklahoma</li>
          <li>Kimberly Hunley, Northern Arizona University</li>
          <li>
            <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxxvii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxxvii" />
            <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxxvii">xxxvii</span>
            Carrie S. Hurst, Tennessee State University
          </li>
          <li>Jay Jacobson, Marquette University</li>
          <li>C. Douglas Johnson, Georgia Gwinnett College</li>
          <li>Charles Kramer, University of La Verne</li>
          <li>Kim Lukaszewski, New Paltz SUNY</li>
          <li>David McCalman, University of Central Arkansas</li>
          <li>DeNisha McCollum, John Brown University</li>
          <li>Roberta Michel, Oakland University</li>
          <li>Ivan Muslin, Marshall University</li>
          <li>Charlena Patterson, Catholic University of America</li>
          <li>Jeff Paul, University of Tulsa</li>
          <li>Adam Payne, Bentley University—Northeastern University</li>
          <li>Mim Plavin-Masterman, Worcester State University</li>
          <li>Hannah Rothstein, Baruch College</li>
          <li>John Rowe, Florida Gateway College</li>
          <li>Carol Saunders, University of Central Florida</li>
          <li>Mehmet Sincar, Gaziantep University</li>
          <li>Katherine Sliter, Indiana University—Purdue University</li>
          <li>Barbara Stuart, University of Denver</li>
          <li>Douglas Threet, Foothill College</li>
          <li>Becky J. Timmons, University of Arkansas–Fort Smith</li>
          <li>Robert Toronto, University of Michigan-Dearborn</li>
          <li>Barbara A. Wech, University of Alabama at Birmingham</li>
          <li>Heather Wherry, Bellevue University</li>
          <li>Robert Whitcomb, Western Nevada College</li>
          <li>Lissa Whyte-Morazan, Brookline College</li>
          <li>Lisa V. Williams, Niagara University</li>
          <li>Herb Wong, John F. Kennedy University</li>
          <li>Jody A. Worley, University of Oklahoma</li>
          <li>Chulguen (Charlie) Yang, Southern Connecticut State University</li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      <section class="sect1" id="s9781071900079.i964">
        <h2 id="i964" class="title">Reviewers for the second edition:</h2>
        <ul>
          <li>Paul Axelrod, University of San Francisco</li>
          <li>Angela Balog, St. Francis University</li>
          <li>Carl Blencke, University of Central Florida</li>
          <li>Samuel Faught, University of Tennessee</li>
          <li>Nancy Hanson-Rasmussen, University of Wisconsin</li>
          <li>Christopher Hartwell, Utah State University</li>
          <li>Dwight Hite, Cameron University</li>
          <li>Julie Hood, Nyack College</li>
          <li>
            <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="pagexxxviii" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-labelledby="pgxxxviii" />
            <span hidden="hidden" id="pgxxxviii">xxxviii</span>
            Renee Just, Catawba College
          </li>
          <li>William Liang, Brenau University</li>
          <li>Stephanie Maynard-Patrick, St. Thomas University</li>
          <li>Roberta Michel, Oakland University, Michigan</li>
          <li>Terry Nelson, University of Alaska, Anchorage</li>
          <li>Charmaine Rose, St. Thomas University</li>
          <li>Rebecca Bull Schaefer, Gonzaga University</li>
          <li>Pamela Van Dyke, Southern Methodist University</li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      <section class="sect1" id="s9781071900079.i966">
        <h2 id="i966" class="title">Reviewers for the third edition:</h2>
        <ul>
          <li>John Aldridge, Colorado Christian University</li>
          <li>Dick Blackburn, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill</li>
          <li>Carolyn White Fore, Brenau University</li>
          <li>Elizabeth H. Jones, California University of Pennsylvania</li>
          <li>Renee A. Just, Catawba College</li>
          <li>Jennifer Klinger, Old Dominion University</li>
          <li>Lee Macenczak, Kennesaw State University</li>
          <li>Atul Mitra, University of Northern Iowa</li>
          <li>Leslie C. Mueller, Eastern Oregon University</li>
          <li>Jeffrey Paul, Oral Roberts University</li>
          <li>Tracy H. Porter, Cleveland State University</li>
          <li>Michael T. Spooner, Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences</li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      <section class="sect1" id="s9781071900079.i968">
        <h2 id="i968" class="title">Reviewers for the fourth edition:</h2>
        <ul>
          <li>Chet E. Barney, Ph.D.</li>
          <li>Kim B Brannagan, Loyola University New Orleans</li>
          <li>Angelo Brown, Kennesaw State University</li>
          <li>Kathryn Cook, Rockford University</li>
          <li>Marvin Karlins, University of South Florida</li>
          <li>Lisa J. Knowles, St. Thomas University, Miami Gardens, FL</li>
          <li>Roberta Michel, Oakland University</li>
          <li>Elizabeth B. Perkins, Morehead State University</li>
          <li>Tracy H. Porter, Cleveland State University</li>
          <li>Brandon Shamim, Cal State University, LA</li>
          <li>Michael Wagner, University of Cincinnati</li>
        </ul>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
