<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch11">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_115" title="115" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch11">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch11">Chapter 11</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>Some kids dream of joining the circus, others of becoming a major league baseball player. I have been doubly blessed. As a member of the New York Yankees, I have gotten to do both.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—Graig Nettles</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">F</span>
        or the first time in two years, the Yankees couldn’t even sniff the back pages of the New York papers those first few weeks of June 1977. That was the exclusive purview of the Mets and their chairman, M. Donald Grant, engaged in a stare-down with Tom Seaver, the greatest player in team history. Seaver was among baseball’s disgruntled class of players who’d signed multiyear contracts before the Seitz decision, and was markedly underpaid. He wasn’t looking to renegotiate so much as sign an extension that would reflect his status at the top of the pitching market. The Mets balked, finally used Dick Young’s bully pulpit to plant a nasty story in the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        hinting that Seaver’s wife was jealous of Nolan Ryan’s wife, and that was that. Seaver was shipped to the Reds at the trading deadline of June 15, and, for good measure, they’d also exiled their best offensive player, Dave Kingman, to San Diego.
        <span class="smallcaps">mets’ midnight massacre!</span>
        the tabs gleefully dubbed it.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        (George Steinbrenner, unaccustomed to being overshadowed, nevertheless offered his two cents on the Seaver matter, to a reporter from the
        <i>Post</i>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_116" title="116" />
        gossip column Page Six: “I would never have traded him. He’s a star. New York is a star town.”)
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Ever so quietly, the Yankees slithered into Boston on June 17, and they arrived in first place, too, by a half game over the Red Sox, two over the Orioles. Though there’d been a notable thaw between him and his teammates, and Thurman Munson had started talking to him again, Reggie Jackson was still unhappy, primarily because Billy Martin refused to hit him fourth in the order.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I was born a cleanup hitter,” he groused.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Chambliss was our cleanup hitter last year, and we won the pennant,” Martin reasoned. “Why would I break up a successful hand?”</p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees lost the first game to fall back into second place, but even that was muffled by stories previewing Seaver’s first start as a Red Saturday in Montreal. It was the last time the Mets would bump the Yankees off the back pages for about six years.</p>
      <p class="indent">In the bottom of the sixth inning Saturday afternoon at Fenway, with the Sox leading the Yankees 7–4 on the way to a 10–4 win, Boston’s Jim Rice hit a lazy fly ball to right that dunked in no-man’s-land between Jackson and second baseman Willie Randolph. Jackson retrieved the ball, threw it back in, but not before Rice eased into second with a stand-up double. Jackson retreated to his position, turned to get ready for the next hitter and was greeted by a puzzling sight.</p>
      <p class="indent">Reserve outfielder Paul Blair was jogging out to right field.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Billy says to come get you,” he said.</p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson trundled back to the dugout, and when he got there he asked, “What did I do?” What he also did, as the TV cameras saw, was remove his eyeglasses immediately and put them on the bench, as if in anticipation of . . . something.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You don’t hustle, you don’t play for me!” Martin growled.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        By now bench coach Elston Howard had gotten in between the two men. Another coach, Dick Howser, took a towel and covered the NBC TV camera in the Yankees’ dugout, which was a nice idea, except the image
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_117" title="117" />
        filling screens across the country was from the camera in the
        <i>Red Sox’s dugout</i>
        on the other side of the field.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Billy, nothing I do will ever please you. You don’t like me. You don’t think I can play ball. You never have from the first day.”</p>
      <p class="indent">By now the Yankees’ DH Jimmy Wynn grabbed Jackson and tried easing him toward the clubhouse. Martin spewed more venom.</p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson snapped back, “You son of a bitch. Take your best shot, old man,” and Martin lunged at him again, and this time Yogi Berra joined Howard in holding him back. Finally Jackson disappeared into the Yankees’ clubhouse. His one ally on the team, Fran Healy, urged Jackson to get changed and go back to his hotel room before anything else could happen. He did.</p>
      <p class="indent">“If a player shows up the team,” Martin said later, “I’ll show up the player.”</p>
      <p class="indent">George Steinbrenner watched all of this unfold on WKYC, the NBC affiliate in Cleveland, where he was spending the weekend, and he was horrified.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Twenty-five million people are watching this!” he said. “This is a disgrace!”</p>
      <p class="indent">He blamed one man. And it wasn’t his $2.96 million outfielder.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It was kind of humiliating,” Steinbrenner said. “I would have waited to talk to him in the locker room later. It was a scene that good sense would have avoided.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner was particularly incensed at the impromptu boxing match.</p>
      <p class="indent">“No manager should do that,” he said. “He tried to get at him three times.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Soon, Steinbrenner was on a plane to Detroit, where he would meet the Yankees on Monday, and the entirety of the flight was spent pondering who he’d hire to replace Martin, who clearly had to go. Yogi Berra? He’d already rebuked Steinbrenner out of loyalty to Martin. Howser? He’d been up for several jobs in recent years, and the players respected him.
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_118" title="118" />
        Howard? He had coveted the job for years, and Steinbrenner liked the idea that he might hire the Yankees’ first African American skipper, and why not Elston Howard, a faithful Yankees soldier for twenty years and a fan favorite?
      </p>
      <p class="indent">One thing he knew for sure as he touched down in Michigan.</p>
      <p class="indent">Billy Martin was as good as gone.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Except Billy Martin</span>
        found salvation in a most improbable place: Gabe Paul, who never wanted him hired in the first place, who didn’t care for how Martin managed a ball club on the field or himself off it. Yet it was Paul who ordered Martin and Reggie Jackson into the tiny manager’s office at Fenway Park the morning after the dugout incident. He knew better than to expect either man to apologize.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“We cleared the air,” Paul said.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It was a good talk,” Martin said.</p>
      <p class="indent">“No comment,” Jackson said.</p>
      <p class="indent">It was something else Jackson said, in addition to Paul’s conviction it wasn’t yet time, that convinced Steinbrenner he couldn’t fire him. Following his quick exit from Fenway Saturday, Jackson walked back to the team hotel; a few reporters found him there after they’d finished writing their first-edition stories.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m a good ballplayer and a good Christian and I’ve got an IQ of 160,” Jackson said. “But I’m a n——and I won’t be subservient. The Yankees pinstripes are Ruth and Gehrig and DiMaggio and Mantle. They’ve never had a n——like me here before and treat me like shit.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner read this, and he was incensed. He’d been unyielding in his support of Jackson from the second he’d signed the cocktail napkin in the O’Hare airport hotel. He’d publicly sided with Jackson while trying to cool down Thurman Munson’s various Jackson-themed tantrums. He’d continually sided with Jackson against Martin. Now Jackson was essentially calling Steinbrenner a racist. It cut deep.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “George isn’t a racist, at all,” John McLendon, the African American coaching pioneer who’d coached for Steinbrenner’s Cleveland Pipers in the
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_119" title="119" />
        ABL, would say about him. “He isn’t anti-Black. He may be anti-human, but he isn’t anti-Black.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">There was something else. Steinbrenner knew fans in Minneapolis still hadn’t forgiven Clark Griffith for firing Martin eight years earlier, and that night, in Tiger Stadium, 47,236 Tigers fans would welcome Martin the way they had every time he’d returned to Detroit since being axed in 1973: with a standing ovation. Steinbrenner knew his approval rating was still high among Yankees fans, but he also knew if he ever fired Martin, there would be a steep tax to pay for that in public opinion. New Yorkers might’ve liked Steinbrenner’s deep pockets; they respected Martin’s brass balls to regularly (and publicly) tell his boss to go to hell, as so many of them fantasized telling their own bosses.</p>
      <p class="indent">So Steinbrenner announced Martin was staying on. Then he had separate, private talks with Jackson and Martin.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Cut out the racist shit,” Steinbrenner chided Jackson. “Never has a man’s color or where he goes to church been a part of my life. It’s an insult to me when you say that, and I’m pissed off about it. I don’t expect you and your manager to have breakfast together, but you’ve got to pull together.”</p>
      <p class="indent">To Martin he said, “You haven’t been working at your job. On the field you’re great, but you don’t do your homework in the office. You’re coasting on last year’s pennant. I want to keep you here, but don’t let me down this time. You push me to the wall again, I promise you I’ll throw you over.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Then he assembled the rest of the team in the clubhouse.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You guys have given me more headaches than any of my businesses. I’m not used to losers. I won’t tolerate losers.”</p>
      <p class="indent">But the Yankees kept playing middling baseball. Steinbrenner was in Kansas City for the last game before the All-Star break, an 8–4 loss to the Royals that completed a series sweep and dropped them into third place, and he left the team with a decidedly mixed message postgame. In his hands were thirty checks for $300 apiece that he handed to the players, the coaches and trainer Gene Monahan.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Have yourself a good time on me,” he said. And then he added this kicker.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_120" title="120" />
        “If you don’t turn this around, you’ll be known as the greatest chokers in baseball history. Remember that.”
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Billy Martin realized</span>
        one dream on the evening of Tuesday, July 19, when he managed the AL All-Star team, a perk that goes to the skipper of the defending pennant winner. The game was at Yankee Stadium, making it extra meaningful to him even though the AL fell for the fourteenth time in the previous fifteen games, 7–5.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I enjoyed every second of this,” he said.</p>
      <p class="indent">That’s a good thing. Because by the next weekend he was back on the griddle, and by now he’d lost Gabe Paul as a defender. It didn’t help the Yankees lost twice to the Brewers, including one where Sparky Lyle blew a 4–0 lead in the ninth. But the break allowed Steinbrenner and Paul to further discuss Martin’s qualities as a manager. And the more they talked, the more they realized they had an underachieving team on their hands. A manager takes a fall for that.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner called a few trusted Yankees writers—“on background only!” he advised them—and alerted them Martin was on thin ice. He further advised he was going to ask Dick Howser to take over. The next day at Yankee Stadium, Martin was confronted with the rumors and said, “Our attendance is up, we’re in a pennant race, and they’re going to fire the manager?”</p>
      <p class="indent">He was angry now.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Where do these rumors start? Probably the people who are trying to fire me,” he correctly surmised. “Where are they? I don’t know.”</p>
      <p class="indent">There were 41,060 people at the stadium that day, and they gave Martin a forty-second ovation when he took out the lineup card. That certainly didn’t hurt Martin’s case. But the larger issue was that Howser turned down the job. He believed he had a bright future as a manager somewhere but had seen enough of Steinbrenner to know he should try to chase that dream elsewhere (for now, anyway).</p>
      <p class="indent">One more time, Martin received a stay. Steinbrenner was angry that Martin seemed to play on the empathies of the writers and the sympathies of the fans.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_121" title="121" />
        “He’s saying, ‘They’re making a martyr out of me,’” Steinbrenner railed when he confirmed Martin was still on the job. “The same thing was said in Minnesota and Detroit and Texas. Comes to a point you ask, how many times are we going to go through this? Maybe the guy is in the wrong business. I do get a little tired of the self-serving statements that are made and are less than accurate.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Not content to simply censure his manager, now he added an extra dollop of humiliation. Martin, Steinbrenner said, would keep his job as long as he followed to the letter a list of demands intended to keep him focused and prepared. Martin wasn’t amused.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You mean I can sleep until tomorrow?” he said. “It’s like being on death row. You never get used to it. You never know when they’re coming to get you.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Martin was convinced</span>
        they would get him in August. The Yankees lost four out of six to the Angels in Anaheim and the expansion Mariners in Seattle. They fell five games out of first. Worse: Martin’s own captain was trying to sabotage the whole season. For eleven days, Munson kept showing up at the ballpark having let his beard grow. It was stubble at first. Then a five-o’clock shadow. And then something akin to a genuine beard, which was a direct violation of George Steinbrenner’s sacrosanct appearance code. Writers started to ask about it. Martin said it’s a free country, even in the employ of George M. Steinbrenner III.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I like beards,” Munson said coyly. “Billy doesn’t mind. George . . . is the other way.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He laughed. But by the last day of the trip, everyone was tired and cranky. It was obvious Steinbrenner was going to say something at some point, and his ire probably wouldn’t be directed at the hirsute captain but at the hair-trigger manager.</p>
      <p class="indent">Munson told Martin: “I’m keeping the beard. I hope it doesn’t get you into trouble.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin had to laugh: After all the other crap, he was going to get fired over personal hygiene?</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_122" title="122" />
        And then, in an instant, all was well.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">First, Munson shaved. Then Reggie Jackson became the cleanup hitter.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner pleaded with Martin for months to make that move. Martin resisted. At first it was out of loyalty to Chris Chambliss. Then it was to refute speculation that Steinbrenner was ordering Martin who to play and where to hit them. Lastly, it was out of either stubbornness or spite, probably a little bit of both. But the Yankees were five out with fifty-three games left to play. If the team had a finishing kick in it, this was the time.</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin alerted a grateful Steinbrenner by using a horse term: “George, it’s time to go to the whip.”</p>
      <p class="indent">By now, the Yankees saw how Jackson had continued to produce even amid the daily storms that gathered around him, and his teammates had actually grown to quietly admire him. They knew how much it killed him not to hit cleanup, yet no matter where Martin batted him—usually fifth or sixth—he kept hitting. At one point a few weeks earlier, at the Pfister Hotel in Milwaukee, Lou Piniella convinced Thurman Munson to take an elevator to the presidential suite, where Steinbrenner was quartered. Piniella had a father-son relationship with Steinbrenner; Munson’s was more detached, but he was the captain, and Piniella convinced him to join him. Steinbrenner answered the door, puzzled.</p>
      <p class="indent">“George,” Piniella said, “you need to give Billy some room. You need to let him breathe. If he’s under pressure every day, so are we, and we can’t perform that way.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Also,” Munson said, “it’s time for Reggie to start hitting cleanup.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Before the discussion could get much further it was interrupted by a loud knock on the door. Martin had been passing by, heard familiar voices coming out of the room, and suspected treason. It took a few minutes for Steinbrenner to convince Martin of his players’ pure intentions, and it took a few weeks before Martin finally would write “Jackson” fourth on his lineup card.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The Yankees won that night. Jackson had two hits and an RBI. Across the season’s final fifty-three, he was the most dangerous hitter in the sport: a .288 batting average, thirteen homers, forty-nine RBIs. The Yankees went
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_123" title="123" />
        38–13 in the fifty-one games he played. They jumped into first place on August 23 and stayed there for the final forty games of the season, finishing at 100–62, two and a half games clear of the Orioles and Red Sox. The keystone moment came on the night of September 14, bottom of the ninth of a tied game with Boston. Munson led off with a single. Now Jackson stepped up against Reggie Cleveland, a tough righty. Maybe that’s why Martin signaled for a bunt. In June Jackson likely would’ve fumed; now he squared and took ball one.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Martin took the bunt sign off the next pitch, and Jackson fouled it off.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then Martin put the bunt back on.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I don’t even know the bunt sign,” Jackson said later. “I had to read [third base coach] Dick Howser’s lips to make sure.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Another ball. Martin took off the bunt for good, giving his piping-hot slugger license to swing away. Jackson worked the count to 3-and-2.</p>
      <p class="indent">Cleveland threw. Jackson swung. Four hundred and thirty feet away, the ball landed in a mass of joyful arms, the 54,365 fans inside the stadium chanting his name. This time, there was no need to wonder which side of the dugout Jackson would return to because he was swallowed by his gleeful teammates and his giddy manager as soon as he crossed home plate, sealing a 2–0 win for the Yankees.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Tonight, they got something back from me,” he said. “I’m supposed to hit. With all the money I’m making and George Steinbrenner sticking his neck out, it’s great to do well.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He was hitting cleanup, slugging every day, he had New York eating out of his hand; hell, even Billy Martin hugged him as they walked off the field together. Surely, the worst was behind him.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Winning the AL East</span>
        again, it turned out, hadn’t added an ounce of normalcy to what was lately being referred to as “the Bronx Zoo.” Martin saw to that. Two days before Game 1 of the ALCS Martin decided it would be the perfect time to renegotiate his contract, using the newspapers as a courier to Steinbrenner.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “If we win everything,” he said, “I think it’s a must for George to come
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_124" title="124" />
        up with another contract. If he didn’t, I’d have to seriously think about asking permission to talk with other clubs.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner blew a gasket.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I would just tell him he’s not indispensable,” Steinbrenner said. “That this is just another example of his immaturity. Do you think if we hadn’t finished in first place he would take the blame? Then he’s crazy if he tries to take all the credit.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Before Game 5 Martin informed a bewildered Steinbrenner he was benching Reggie Jackson against Kansas City lefty Paul Splittorff.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>Jesus.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And: damned if it didn’t work out perfectly, too.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees trailed 3–1 heading into the eighth, and Royals Stadium was fixing to detonate, five outs away from Kansas City’s first-ever World Series appearance. Willie Randolph singled. So did Lou Piniella. Splittorff was removed after pitching brilliantly for seven full innings. Doug Bird, a righty, came in. Cliff Johnson was due up.</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin pointed to Jackson. He already had his helmet on.</p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson took the high road before the game, when reporters asked about the benching. He credited Steinbrenner for reminding him that sometimes what’s best for the star isn’t best for the team and said, “It’s Billy’s team, and he knows what’s best.”</p>
      <p class="indent">But he’d been dying inside for seven and a third innings.</p>
      <p class="indent">Now he dug in, and he took a mighty whack from the heels, and as it soared into the sky Royals center fielder Amos Otis instinctively took a few steps back, assuming the trajectory would match the swing. It didn’t. The ball dropped right in front of him, and Randolph, reading the ball perfectly, scooted home from second to cut the deficit to 3–2. In the ninth, the Yankees buried the Royals with three more runs. They won the game, 5–3, and the Yankees retreated to the clubhouse, where they emptied case after case of champagne in a raucous celebration. Steinbrenner, hit by stray bubbly, sought out a mirror on one side of the room, trying to comb his hair and restore a little dignity.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_125" title="125" />
        At once a bottle was poured directly above his head. The comb disappeared.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“That’s for trying to fire me!” Billy Martin squealed.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner squinted through stinging eyes.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “What do you mean,
        <i>try</i>
        ?” he asked.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Both men laughed. Both men hugged. And then Cliff Johnson and Mike Torrez approached with bottles in both hands and finished them off with a waterfall of Moët.</p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson? He was giddy. Also a little salty.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “All season I had to hold it in here,” he said, clutching his T-shirt. “I had to eat it in here. I can’t explain it because I don’t understand the magnitude of Reggie Jackson and the magnitude of the event. I
        <i>am</i>
        the situation.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner walked over, the two men embraced. The boss said, “I think this was a crucial thing for Reggie. When he came in tonight, he delivered a hit instead of sulking. That shows everyone else in New York he’s a team man.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">One of the</span>
        most famous nicknames in baseball history began its life as an insult. The Yankees finished a workout at Dodger Stadium on October 13, the day before Game 3 of the World Series. The Yankees and Dodgers had split the first two games in New York, and on the field in LA Reggie Jackson and Billy Martin were clowning for the cameras, arms around each other as they shagged batting practice balls together. Jackson was smiling, but he was struggling: In the first two games he’d managed only a hit, a walk and a hit-by-pitch. His swing wasn’t right. The Dodgers were throwing a lefty, Tommy John, in Game 3 and so speculation already began that Martin might revisit his strategy from Kansas City and sit Jackson.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Munson, grouchy among writers even in his brightest moods, snorted.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It’s just an overheated argument,” Munson said. “Reggie’s been struggling, and he would like to be doing better. Billy probably doesn’t realize Reggie’s Mr. October.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_126" title="126" />
        And thus was a forever moniker born out of a mud pit of sarcasm.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But Jackson really did heat up in the warmth of Los Angeles. He had three hits, including a double and a homer, as the Yankees won Games 3 and 4 to take a commanding 3–1 lead in the series; in Game 5, won by the Dodgers 10–4, he homered off Don Sutton with his final swing of the day, in the eighth inning.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Two days later New York City was amped with possibility. The Yankees needed one win in two games to deliver their twenty-first championship, their first in fifteen years. To celebrate, before the game, they engaged in—Gabe Paul’s words—“one more round of bullshit for the road.” In the pregame, George Steinbrenner forced Paul to speak to two hundred reporters to announce Billy Martin would manage the Yankees again in 1978 and in 1979. This might actually have been newsworthy if not for the fact that Martin was
        <i>already under contract</i>
        for 1978 and 1979.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">It was one more headline for the early edition of the papers.</p>
      <p class="indent">Reggie Jackson would deliver for the later editions.</p>
      <p class="indent">He walked his first time up against Burt Hooton, on four pitches in the bottom of the second. In the fourth, after Munson led off with a single, Jackson clobbered the first pitch he saw—over the wall in right—giving the Yankees a 4–3 lead. Two innings later, facing Elias Sosa, he redirected another first pitch over that fence that had been so inviting to him as a kid back in 1968. It gave the Yankees a 7–3 lead, and the stadium began to rock on its foundation as 56,407 smelled a championship.</p>
      <p class="indent">By the eighth, police officers on horses were already beginning to stage in the bullpens, hopeful to keep the on-field celebrating to a minimum. Knuckleballer Charlie Hough was on for the Dodgers, and Jackson led off, receiving a thunderous greeting as he stepped into the box. Hough’s first pitch fluttered toward the plate. Jackson swung.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “Oh, what a blow!” Howard Cosell yelled on ABC TV, trying to be heard over the gathering din as the ball rocketed over the night, finally landing in the blacked-out “batter’s eye” area in dead center. After making his triumphant tour of the bases the crowd pleaded for a curtain call, the first one since Roger Maris was summoned after hitting his sixty-first home
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_127" title="127" />
        run in 1961. Jackson took off his helmet, stretched both arms and mouthed, “Thank you!”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Afterward, Jackson found himself in Billy Martin’s office with a couple dozen reporters and TV cameras.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Anybody fights you, Skip,” Jackson said, “he’s got to fight both of us.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“And anybody who fights you,” Martin said, “has got to fight the both of us.”</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          One of the reporters in that room, Dave Anderson of the
          <i>Times</i>
          , had taken Jackson out after a game in July, the two of them sitting at a quiet table at P.J. Clarke’s on Third Avenue. Jackson was grossly unhappy and said so, begging to keep his thoughts off the record. Anderson agreed.
        </p>
        <p class="extiz">“I’m still the straw that stirs the drink, not Munson, not anyone else,” he’d said. “I should’ve signed with the Padres. Or the Dodgers. I’d be happy there. You know what Bobby Vinton sings, ‘Color me gone’? Color me gone, man. I want to hit .300, hit thirty homers, fifty doubles, drive in ninety, be most valuable player in the World Series. And then go.” When Anderson got home to New Jersey, he scribbled those quotes into a notebook and put it away. Three hours after Jackson’s last home run, his fourth in four consecutive swings over two games, Anderson asked Jackson’s permission to put those quotes on the record, so he could contrast what he was feeling in July with this moment. Jackson agreed.</p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">George Steinbrenner had been a year off. It took him four years instead of three to restore the Yankees to full glory, and he was beaming as he rode at the head of the parade that New York threw the Yankees up the Canyon of Heroes the day after Game 6.</p>
      <p class="indent">“This,” he said, “is the happiest I’ve been since I got out of school.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        In the clubhouse, after hugging Jackson, Steinbrenner reminded him of a bet they’d made back in the spring. Jackson guaranteed the Yankees would draw 2.2 million fans and if they did, Steinbrenner would have to
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_128" title="128" />
        sign over a foal from his thoroughbred stable. If they fell short, Jackson would owe Steinbrenner a Porsche. Though the Yankees became the first baseball team to ever draw two-million-plus both at home and on the road, and while they drew almost 100,000 more than in 1976—a lot of fannies in a lot of seats—they’d only reached 2,103,092. And a bet was a bet. But Steinbrenner couldn’t disguise his delight.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Forget it,” he said. “This makes us even.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Jackson decided to show his gratitude another way. A few weeks later he received his World Series MVP trophy. Jackson got it inscribed:
        <i>To George, No. 1, from Reggie, No. 44.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">He presented it to Steinbrenner, who was moved to tears.</p>
      <p class="indent">The boss’s generosity also extended to his manager; he rewarded Martin with a $50,000 bonus. And said he’d be immediately getting back to work on 1978.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Maybe there was a little too much turbulence this year,” he said. “If there was, you have to blame me. We’ll review it. Maybe we can do with a little less.”</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
