<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 16</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch16">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_183" title="183" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch16">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch16">Chapter 16</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>It’s a nice feeling to go to the ballpark and just work and not worry about who’s going to be on your ass today.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—Reggie Jackson</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">R</span>
        eggie Jackson was back. He was home. It was April 27, 1982, and he was mired in a miserable slump, hitting .173 without a single home run in his new California Angels uniform.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Didn’t matter.</p>
      <p class="indent">Never mattered as far as Jackson was concerned. There were 34,458 of them sitting in the rain, a hell of a crowd for a cold April night in the Bronx. There was a reason there were so many fannies in the stands, and they cheered every move of the man wearing number 44 in road grays. They gave him a loud roar his first two times up that night, and he’d scratched out a single in the fifth. Then, leading off the seventh, with the Angels up 2–1, there was another ovation, and now Ron Guidry tried to muscle a fastball by him and Jackson swung and hit one of his specialty home runs designed expressly for Yankee Stadium and for the moment.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I knew nobody was going to make a play on it,” Guidry said later, a sporting tip-of-the-cap gesture for which George Steinbrenner would soon rip him a new one. “But at least when Reggie hits ’em, you enjoy watching ’em. He earns his.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        And so the saturated masses rose to their feet as soon as they heard
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_184" title="184" />
        ball hit bat, as they watched it fly high on a beautiful parabola toward the facing of the upper deck. They summoned Jackson out of the dugout for a curtain call, unheard of for a visitor at Yankee Stadium. And then, the chant started. And got louder. And louder.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “
        <i>STEIN-BREN-NER SUCKS!</i>
        ” they thundered, clapping five times.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “
        <i>STEIN-BREN-NER SUCKS!</i>
        ” they roared.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “
        <i>STEIN-BREN-NER SUCKS!</i>
        ” they bellowed.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“It was very hard to believe,” Jackson said later on. “I was deeply touched. I feel like that was a total acceptance from them, and it made me feel extra good, knowing I was forced out of here by George.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner? He saw it a little differently.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Disappointed,” he said a few minutes after the chant finally died down. “Embarrassed for my family to have to hear such things.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He wasn’t surprised, though.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I just thought it was a cheap shot after all the cheers we’ve given them.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He paused.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m happy for Reggie,” Steinbrenner said. “He might not believe that. But I am.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He was right about that. Jackson didn’t believe that, especially later on, in the stadium lobby, where he was chatting with friends waiting for a limo to take him to Seventy-Seventh and Third Avenue, where a postgame rib eye awaited him at the Jim McMullen steak house. He was standing maybe two feet from the elevator when the door opened. George Steinbrenner. They locked eyes. Steinbrenner pressed a button, and the door closed. A few seconds later the door opened again. Steinbrenner again. Now the Boss furiously pushed buttons and muttered, “Someone fix this damn thing!”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Can he really hate me that much,” Jackson said, “that he couldn’t even get off and walk past me?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Hate” was probably a bit strong, but it hadn’t been the best of times for the Boss. Jackson spent most of 1981 trying to get Steinbrenner to commit to a five-year deal that would allow him to close his career as a Yankee. Then Jackson went through the most difficult season of his career; even the Reggie! bar was doomed, discontinued for lack of sales.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_185" title="185" />
        “My baseball people all agreed,” Steinbrenner said in 2002, a few days before the twentieth anniversary of Jackson’s triumphant return. “They all thought—me, too—Reggie had one good year left in him. And the more time went on the more we agreed it wouldn’t be smart to pay Reggie for five years and have prime Reggie for one.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Of course, by 1982, Steinbrenner’s “baseball people” consisted of a party of one: himself. Everyone knew that. Jackson knew that. He loved New York. But the interest was not mutual. By January 22, he realized it never would be and signed with the Angels for five years, $900,000 per. He lobbed no verbal missiles at his former boss, refused to even talk about Steinbrenner.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m a happy man,” he said. “Take my word.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Later in the year, still fried about the way it ended with the Yankees, he’d admit: “I was discarded like some old baggage.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Still, he was happier now, Yankees fans less so. Much of that ovation was to remind Jackson how much they’d enjoyed watching him for five years. Part of it was their way of flipping a double bird at the Boss—and only partially because he’d let Jackson go. And to be fair . . . he was proven right over time. Jackson played the next five years with the Angels. He was productive for four of them. But he was vintage Jackson in only one: 1982, when he led the Angels to the AL West title, hit thirty-nine homers and drove in 101 runs, finishing sixth in the MVP vote. He would become the thirteenth member of the 500 Home Run Club on September 17, 1984, as an Angel (after which he was presented with a commemorative silver tray from Cartier by George Steinbrenner). He finished his career where it started, in Oakland, compiling 563 homers—which even thirty-eight years after his retirement put him fourteenth on the all-time list. He hit 144 of them as a Yankee.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner developed an alternate plan. He decided speed and defense was the right path to follow. He signed Dave Collins from the Reds, who’d stolen seventy-nine bases in 1980. He traded for Ken Griffey, father of a future Hall of Famer and a speedy perennial All-Star. In January he “urged” his team to report to spring training a couple of weeks earlier than
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_186" title="186" />
        the March 1 due date, and most did that, some begrudgingly. When they arrived they spent much of the time running sprints, jumping into sliding pits and learning the secrets of running from Harrison Dillard, a four-time Olympic gold-medalist hurdler.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Broadcaster Phil Rizzuto was commissioned to teach bunting. When a young shortstop named Andre Robertson muffed one in an exhibition game, Steinbrenner ordered him to bunt one hundred balls after the game, until Robertson’s arms were numb. The Yankees, famous for decades for their power, were specializing in small ball. And the nicknames that came flying out of the clubhouse were catnip for headline writers.</p>
      <p class="indents">
        <small>FROM BRONX BOMBERS TO BRONX BURNERS!</small>
      </p>
      <p class="indents">
        <small>FROM MURDERER’S ROW TO MURMURER’S ROW!</small>
      </p>
      <p class="indents">
        <small>STEINBRENNER’S STRIDERS!</small>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“This is by far the best team we’ve ever assembled,” Steinbrenner said in March, and the Yankees spent the next six months making that seem like the funniest thing anyone had ever heard of since the words “absentee ownership.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Steinbrenner Always Coveted</span>
        bold-faced names to manage his team, but the ones who qualified—Earl Weaver, Tommy Lasorda, Sparky Anderson—were never available when he had an opening. Dick Williams was in San Diego now. Bob Lemon was sixty-one, and he’d hardly distinguished himself in his brief return, but during a January meeting Lemon told Steinbrenner he’d lost twenty-four pounds and was trying his best to stay away from the cigarettes and the Canadian Club. Steinbrenner was duly impressed and announced Lemon would manage the Yankees in 1982 in something of a victory lap for a long and meritorious baseball life. In 1983 he’d restore Gene Michael to the job.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Bob Lemon is going to be our manager all year,” he declared. “You can bet on it. I don’t care if we come in last place. I swear on my heart he’ll be the manager all season.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Lemon got fourteen games.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_187" title="187" />
        The Yankees were 6–8, and Steinbrenner couldn’t take what he was watching. He fired Lemon and guaranteed him a job in the organization for life. He summoned Gene Michael a year early. Lemon spent some time with Michael before flying home to California.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“What did I tell you, Meat?” he said with a smile.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The Yankees spent the season mired in fourth or fifth place, because what Steinbrenner assembled amounted to a fourth- or fifth-place club. The team was supposed to be built around speed but wound up eleventh in stolen bases with sixty-nine, or sixty-one fewer than Rickey Henderson of Billy Martin’s Oakland A’s stole
        <i>by himself</i>
        that year.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">To make matters worse the Mets got off to a 27–21 start and saw a surge in attendance while the Yankees’ numbers flattened. Steinbrenner agreed to reinstate the Mayor’s Trophy Game in late May, and 41,614 fans—the highest total at the stadium all year to that point, many wearing Mets caps—showed up to see the Mets win, 4–1.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m disgusted with this ball club,” Steinbrenner railed in late June, and none of his pet tricks had any impact.</p>
      <p class="indent">After a 6–5 loss to the Mariners in July that lasted twelve innings and tickled the midnight hour, Steinbrenner ordered seven players, by name, to report an hour and a half early the next day to work on the various things they’d done wrong in that loss.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m depressed; it’s no fun here anymore,” said Gossage (just warming up, trust us). “It’s getting worse. If you don’t perform here you don’t need Steinbrenner on your ass every day. The people will let you know.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees were dull. They were losing. And they were old.</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          By 1982 it became harder for Steinbrenner to make trades because the minor-league system was bereft from his emptying it of scores of prospects. In a few months Willie McGee would be a World Series star with the Cardinals and would win an MVP and a batting title in his career; the year before McGee had been stuck in Double-A Nashville, where he’d hit over .300 but
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_188" title="188" />
          found, as many other Yankee farmhands did, that it was impossible to move up in the system because of Steinbrenner’s fascination with big-ticket veterans. McGee was swapped for Bob Sykes, who never pitched another inning in the majors.
        </p>
        <p class="extiz">“Your initial response when you’re drafted by the Yankees is that it’s great. After about three years of playing in the minors you find it’s about the worst thing that could have happened to you. I don’t think the Yankees farmhands are fooled anymore.” Those words came from the Nashville first baseman, a career .294 hitter who never played an inning in the bigs. His name was Buck Showalter.</p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">
        Gene Michael never allowed the season to spin completely sideways; he simply didn’t have the talent to compete with the Orioles and Brewers. Every winning streak seemed to be halted by a brutal loss. On August 15, with a chance to crawl back to .500 and inch within ten games of first-place Milwaukee, Gossage inherited a 4–2 lead in Chicago and got boxed around by the White Sox for four eighth-inning runs. The next day, back home, he woke up to this subtle headline in the
        <i>Post</i>
        : WILD GOOSE RIPPED.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">In the short term, Gossage reacted as you would expect the premier rubber-armed, flame-throwing stopper of his generation to react: He saved both ends of a doubleheader sweep of Dick Howser’s Royals, retiring all ten batters he faced across the two games. Afterward, reporters gathered around him; Goose had his moments and his moods but mostly he was a good guy and a good quote.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Someone asked if he’d seen the newspaper. He had
        <i>absolutely</i>
        seen the newspaper.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Everybody . . .” he said. And then he was off.</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <i>The way they boo fucking Griffey and everybody else . . . and you motherfuckers, all you motherfuckers with a fucking pen and a fucking tape recorder, you can fucking turn it on and take it upstairs . . .</i>
        </p>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_189" title="189" />
          . . .
          <i>to the FAT MAN!</i>
        </p>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <i>OK?</i>
        </p>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <i>Because I’m fucking sick and tired of this fucking shit, the negative fucking bullshit. Everything you guys read and write these motherfuckers read it—these dumb motherfuckers in the seats . . .</i>
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">He caught his breath. Spotted a writer dutifully turning on his tape recorder so he wouldn’t miss even one syllable of the monologue. Continued.</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <i>Yeah, turn it on. Turn it on, you greasy cocksucker! They read everything you write and we hear the same fucking lines, you know what I mean? Fuckin’ negative motherfuckers. No wonder you carry a pad and a fucking paper around, you ain’t worth a fucking shit to do anything else. Motherfuckers!</i>
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">It should be noted that none of the writers ever felt physically threatened by Gossage’s tirade; there was in fact audible laughter when Gossage got to the “greasy” part. And the next day, he made sure to apologize to the fans, and to the female reporters who’d been at his locker stall. And he even apologized to the Fat Man, who himself actually took the invective in stride, saying, “I consider Rich Gossage more of a son than anyone else on the team.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He was unhappy being called, you know, “fat.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Tell him I’ve lost eleven pounds the last couple of weeks,” Steinbrenner said, “and that when I was thirty-one [Gossage’s age] I would have beaten him in the hundred-yard dash.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Gossage laughed when that was relayed. And while he was sorry about the R-rated part of his diatribe, this most accountable of all Yankees stood by its crux.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I mean everything I said. I can’t take it back. I’m sincere.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_190" title="190" />
        <span class="bold">Gene Michael wasn’t</span>
        around to hear Goose’s rant. Back on August 3, around the seventh inning of a 14–2 pasting by the White Sox (after Chicago had already won the opening game of the doubleheader 1–0), he heard Bob Sheppard announce over the PA system that any of the 34,172 fans who’d retained their ticket stub could turn it in for a free ticket for a future game.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Michael turned to Yogi Berra on the bench.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You know what that means,” he said. “I’m gone.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Michael kept a stoic profile in public. Steinbrenner called him the next day, said there was a job waiting for him in the front office if he wanted it. Michael wasn’t so sure.</p>
      <p class="indent">“George, this one stings,” he said. “I’m hurt by this.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Why do you want this job anyway?” the Boss asked. “You don’t need a guy like me on your ass every day.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Because I know I’m a good manager,” Michael said.</p>
      <p class="indent">In 1986 the Cubs hired him to manage, but Stick struggled there for two years, and by 1988 he was back in the employ of Steinbrenner. Soon enough, he would save Steinbrenner’s baseball empire from sliding into the abyss.</p>
      <p class="indent">Soon enough.</p>
      <p class="indent">For now, the Yankees would be in the hands of Clyde King—a former pitcher who players had long suspected was more of a spy for Steinbrenner than an employee—and in what was probably the biggest surprise of the year King won the clubhouse. King took over with the Yankees still only eight games out at 50–50, with sixty-two games to go. As the Boss insisted to Michael, “We did it before. We did it in ’78.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“George,” Michael said, “Thurman is dead. Reggie is in California. Guidry isn’t Superman anymore. This is crazy.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        It was crazy. The Yankees finished 79–83, their first losing season under Steinbrenner since ’73, sixteen games out of first place and only a game out of last. Still, Clyde King, loyal lieutenant, hoped that would be enough for
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_191" title="191" />
        his general to give him a legitimate crack at the job. He never realized it, but he had no shot.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">In late September Roy Eisenhardt, the president of the Oakland Athletics and the son-in-law of owner Walter Haas Jr., called George Steinbrenner, unsolicited.</p>
      <p class="indent">“If you are interested,” Eisenhardt said, knowing full well he would be talking to an interested party, “we give you permission to speak to Billy Martin.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">It happened again,</span>
        amazingly (inevitably, predictably). Martin had revived baseball in Oakland. In 1981 the A’s built off Martin’s stunning first year by starting the season 11–0, winning twenty of their first twenty-five games; they cruised to a share of the AL West in the split season and then hammered the Royals, three games to none, in the playoffs. After the third game, he returned to his office, soaked in champagne, and opened a telegram from an interested observer back in New York: “You’re a horseshit cowboy but a great manager. I hope we play you in the playoffs. G. Steinbrenner.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">They did play, and the A’s were slaughtered in three straight, but it sure felt like a baton had been passed between powers in the American League.</p>
      <p class="indent">Until Martin broke the baton in two and lobbed if off the Bay Bridge.</p>
      <p class="indent">The A’s had the most electrifying young player in baseball in twenty-three-year-old Rickey Henderson, who stole a record 130 bases that season. They had baseball’s most complete pitching staff. The ’82 A’s drew more than 1.7 million to charmless Oakland-Alameda Coliseum, at least 700,000 more than they’d attracted in any of their three championship seasons of 1972, 1973 and 1974. Martin had a five-year contract at $250,000 per, and the A’s bought him a luxury house as a thank-you for all his fine work.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m an Oakland A for life,” he’d declared in spring, in Arizona.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        One by one the pitchers all got hurt, and many blamed Martin’s overuse of them in 1981 for that. He started showing up for games late, and actually left a few early. He began warring with his players. He openly questioned the manhood of his catcher, ex-Yankee Mike Heath, in one
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_192" title="192" />
        barroom and challenged one of his injured starters, Brian Kingman, to a fight one other boozy night.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">By late August Martin wanted to add a year to the back end of his contract. The A’s refused. Eisenhardt called Steinbrenner.</p>
      <p class="indent">And thus was Billy III born.</p>
      <p class="indent">“The Kid’s back,” Steinbrenner gleefully announced. “This is a new era . . . for the third time around.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin, straight-faced: “I had a long talk with George, I know people will wonder if we’ll get along. We’ve straightened a lot of things out. For instance, I’ll be handling all the trades . . .”</p>
      <p class="indent">From behind him, Steinbrenner, also stone-faced: “What do you mean?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“There’ll be no phone calls in the dugout. . . .”</p>
      <p class="indent">“What do you mean?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Then George stepped to the bank of microphones. “That’s not right!” he said. “I’m handling the trades—”</p>
      <p class="indent">“That isn’t the way we said, George—”</p>
      <p class="indent">“I want you in the dugout—”</p>
      <p class="indent">“That’s not the way it’s gonna be, George!”</p>
      <p class="indent">“You’re damn right it is, and if you don’t like it, you’re fired!”</p>
      <p class="indent">“You haven’t hired me yet!”</p>
      <p class="indent">At that, Abbott and Costello began to laugh and so did the rest of the room, out of uncomfortable politeness as much as anything else. It was quite a show. Soon to be quite a shit show.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
