<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 28</title>
    <link href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch28">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_324" title="324" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch28">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch28">Chapter 28</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>I just don’t fly off the handle as much. But I’m capable.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—Hank Steinbrenner</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">H</span>
        oward Rubenstein was speaking in his own voice now in October 2007, not on behalf of the boldest of his bold-faced-type clients, George Steinbrenner.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“George has said it for a few years, he wants to let the young elephants into the tent. He’s doing that now.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The elephants in question were fifty-year-old Henry George Steinbrenner III and thirty-seven-year-old Harold Zieg Steinbrenner, and they were the scions of the Steinbrenner baseball family. The previous month Hal was named chairman of the board, though for now that was simply a matter of protocol; all four Steinbrenner children were equal partners. It was assumed Hal, when the time was right, would be moved to the top and become the face of the team—quietly, as was his preference, and without much rancor.</p>
      <p class="indent">In the meantime, it would be his older brother who would provide the voice.</p>
      <p class="indent">Hank would take Rubenstein’s comments as literally as possible, happily morphing into the biggest elephant in any room he walked in, trouncing those rooms with various opinions and observations before heading outside for a satisfying smoke.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_325" title="325" />
        “I’ll pay more attention to the baseball part,” Hank said soon after his brother’s appointment as chairman. “The stadium, the business end, that’s more Hal. Basically, everything will be decided jointly.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">That was fine with Hal.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I don’t ever want to be somebody who walks down the street and somebody recognizes,” said the son of one of the most recognizable figures in American sports. “I’m a pretty private person.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Hank was not. Hank had a lot of thoughts on a lot of things. And what quickly became apparent was that Hank was every bit the back-page gold mine his father had been—maybe more so. He was happy to hand out his cell phone number to reporters, happier to take their calls, downright gleeful at returning calls he’d missed, and happiest still to fill empty notebooks with gold.</p>
      <p class="indent">A few of his greatest hits:</p>
      <p class="indent">When Torre flew to Tampa to face his reckoning after the ’07 season, the Yankees brain trust—including the brothers, Brian Cashman and team president Randy Levine—decided not to fire him, but rather offered to let him keep his job, at a pay cut, with the option of earning most of it back with incentive bonuses. Torre turned them down, wasn’t at all happy about how this had been handled, wasn’t at all shy about sharing that—though he took care to show immediate deference and gratitude to George, sitting quietly at his end of the table. Soon he took a job managing the Los Angeles Dodgers. None of the Yankees brass was happy with how that turned out.</p>
      <p class="indent">It was Hank who said the quiet parts out loud.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Where was Joe’s career in ’95 when my dad hired him?” Hank raged. “My dad was crucified for hiring him!” He called Torre an “ingrate.”</p>
      <p class="indent">A few weeks later Hank was asked about Alex Rodriguez’s pending decision opting out of the rest of the ten-year, $252 million deal the Yankees inherited when they’d brought him in from Texas.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Alex has to decide,” Hank said, “does he want to go into the Hall of Fame as a Yankee or a Toledo Mud Hen?”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        That one was funny enough that the Mud Hens—Triple-A affiliate of the Detroit Tigers—offered Rodriguez a mock contract. Hank wasn’t
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_326" title="326" />
        laughing a few days later when Rodriguez and his agent, Scott Boras, took advantage of the final game of the World Series to upstage the Red Sox’s sweep of the Colorado Rockies to announce that he would, in fact, be opting out:
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“It’s clear he doesn’t want to be a Yankee. He doesn’t understand the privilege of being a Yankee on a team where owners are willing to pay $200 million to put a winning product on the field. I don’t want anybody on my team that doesn’t want to be a Yankee.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He took a long drag on a cigarette.</p>
      <p class="indent">“We’re not going to back down,” he promised. “It’s goodbye.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Asked the next day if there was a chance he’d change his mind? “Not a chance.”</p>
      <p class="indent">That didn’t seem to matter to Hank a few weeks later when the Yankees actually offered Rodriguez ten years and $275 million (a deal they would later regret deeply). He kept chattering. He ripped Brian Cashman for keeping prized flamethrower Joba Chamberlain in the bullpen, rather than starting him. When right-handed starter Mike Mussina had a poor start to 2008 Hank offered his star pitcher should throw more like soft-tossing southpaw Jamie Moyer of Philadelphia, to which Mussina had said, “I guess I could throw underhand left-handed if I had to.”</p>
      <p class="indent">When asked about “Red Sox Nation”—Sox fans were more ubiquitous than ever after winning a second title in four years in 2007—Hank made another slew of headlines.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Red Sox Nation?” he said. “What a bunch of shit that is. That was a creation of the Red Sox and ESPN, which is filled with Red Sox fans. Go anywhere in America and you won’t see Red Sox hats and jackets, you’ll see Yankees hats and jackets. This is a Yankees country. We’re going to put the Yankees back on top and restore the universe to order.”</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          Hank really was a columnist’s best friend. Once, searching for an idea on a random Tuesday, my boss, Greg Gallo, said, “Call Hank. See what he has to say.”
        </p>
        <p class="exti3">
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_327" title="327" />
          “About what?” I asked.
        </p>
        <p class="exti3">“About anything,” Gallo said.</p>
        <p class="extiz">
          I called Hank, he picked up right away, and for twenty-five minutes he provided me that day’s column, which became the next morning’s back page:
          <span class="smallcaps">HANK UNPLUGGED!</span>
          After we were done, as I was hammering my laptop to beat deadline, my phone rang. It was Hank. “And a few other things . . .” And by the time he was done I had about fifteen minutes left to finish the column. It ran a little long that day.
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">In his office a few doors down at Legends Field from his big brother, Hal seemed to get a kick out of Hank, who’d endured a few personal hiccups in his youth and now seemed to be having the time of his life. In his first twenty years working under his father Hal gave exactly three interviews. Now, he was a little more accessible but knew that his dry observations weren’t exactly circled with yellow highlighters the next day.</p>
      <p class="indent">“That’s what Hank’s for,” he said early in 2008. “He’s perfect. He’s everything you guys want. How many more papers can you sell? Where would you be without him?”</p>
      <p class="indent">We were about to find out. Alas.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">After a while,</span>
        Hal began spending more and more time at Yankee Stadium in the final weeks and months before its long-appointed date with a wrecking ball. He still didn’t say much—Hank was always just a text message away if his thoughts were required—but Hal knew the time was now to begin the final stages of immersion so he could assume solo leadership of the Yankees. Because that day was coming fast.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        His father remained in Tampa more and more, his health worsening. The club’s Tampa headquarters, Legends Field, had been rebranded George M. Steinbrenner Field. The old Boss attended the Yankees’ home opener on April 1 and visited the new park across the street, but after his tour around the warning track at the All-Star Game in July he never returned. There would
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_328" title="328" />
        be no playoff games to tempt him—under Joe Torre’s successor, Joe Girardi, the Yankees missed the postseason for the first time since 1993. And he chose to stay away from the star-studded stadium finale September 21, too.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Tellingly, so did Hank. Hal and Jennifer represented the Steinbrenner family that night. On November 20, Hal officially became the Yankees “control person”—first among equals among the other general partners, after Major League Baseball said there could be only one managing general partner. The siblings put the matter up to a vote.</p>
      <p class="indent">Hank voted for his brother. That was that.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I realize it’s a great responsibility,” Hal said when he officially became the New Boss. “My dad, needless to say, is a tough act to follow. But I’m going to do my best.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Of his father, Hal also said: “He’s been slowing down the last couple of years.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Hank, too, would soon be slowed, and quieted, if not completely silenced. Respecting his brother meant keeping his own commentaries to a minimum. Hal might not have the loudest voice in the room but his was the only one that mattered now. Hank would still have a say in Yankees business, as would his sisters, but Hal would have
        <i>final</i>
        say.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The first time Hal truly cleared his throat was to rectify the disappointing final chapter his ball club scripted in its last season at the old stadium. By Christmas, he would expand the team’s budget, sign off on Brian Cashman spending $423.5 million on CC Sabathia, a workhorse lefty who was the plum of that year’s free agent class; Mark Teixeira, a perennial All-Star first baseman and a genuine slugger; and A. J. Burnett, a hard-throwing righty who would neatly complement Sabathia. Hal stated on multiple occasions that long-term he was going to demand more fiscal restraint than his old man showed but that was for later on. For now he put distance between his 2009 team and the eighty-nine-win, third-place team that preceded it. He also had a sparkling new stadium to fill, one with the highest price points anywhere in the sport. This was no time to squeeze nickels and dimes.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I guess I can sit up here and say if we don’t make the World Series we’ve let our fans down,” Hal said. “I
        <i>will</i>
        stand up here and say that. That’s
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_329" title="329" />
        certainly the mentality of everyone in this organization. And everyone in this family.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">A few months later, he borrowed another page out of the family playbook when asked about how he’d grade Girardi midway through his second season: “Joe knows what’s expected of him. We expect to win every year. Joe knows who he’s working for.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The team was good enough to back up the boasting of the bantam Boss. They lost the first game played in their new house on April 16, 2009—a 10–2 thrashing by Cleveland, observed, from the new owner’s box, Box 44, by an old Indians fan named George Steinbrenner. After a slow start the Yankees stormed to 103 wins, then defeated the Twins and Angels in the American League playoffs. When they eliminated Anaheim in Game 6 of the ALCS, Hal briefly appeared in the triumphant home clubhouse at Yankee Stadium to let a few of his players spray him with champagne.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then he said, “What a terrific year. Let’s get the last one!”</p>
      <p class="indent">Hank?</p>
      <p class="indent">Hank was last heard from in February, responding thusly to Boston owner John Henry’s suggestion that maybe baseball could use a salary cap: “Along with a few other teams, we’re basically baseball’s stimulus package.”</p>
      <p class="indent">That was it. He changed his phone numbers, and this time kept the digits to himself. Howard Rubenstein would dutifully pass along messages, always with the caveat: Don’t hold your breath.</p>
      <p class="indent">“He’s just decided he’s really going to defer to his brother,” Rubenstein explained, and Hank stayed in Tampa all during the Yankees’ playoff push.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        His father, however, wanted one more taste of a Yankee Stadium October. At 7:09 on the evening of October 28, Game 1 against the Phillies, a black Town &amp; Country minivan specially equipped to hold a wheelchair in the back rolled through the basement at Yankee Stadium and pulled up to the VIP elevators. Dr. Andrew Boyer was with him along with daughter Jessica and her third husband, Felix Lopez. The group went straight up to Box 44. On the field, the ground crew wore T-shirts that said
        <span class="smallcaps">WIN ONE FOR THE BOSS</span>
        . After the top of the first inning the stadium’s huge scoreboard beamed a message:
        <span class="smallcaps">WIN IT FOR THE BOSS</span>
        . But Steinbrenner’s image wasn’t
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_330" title="330" />
        shown, and by the team’s request the Fox TV cameras never showed him, either.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">When the series returned to New York for Game 6, the Boss stayed home. But Hank went. When the Yankees clinched their twenty-seventh World Series with a 7–3 win over Philadelphia—the seventh under the auspices of George M. Steinbrenner III—Hank renewed acquaintances with his old friends from the press. When asked literally fifteen minutes after the final out if he thought the Yankees would repeat as champions in 2010, he answered exactly as you’d expect he would.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Of course we will!”</p>
      <p class="indent">Then he turned quiet and talked about his father.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “This means a lot to my dad,” said Hank. “This is maybe the
        <i>most</i>
        special one for him because we dropped there for a while, we had to come back and we had to rebuild. He was looking forward to this, this one as much as any of them.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Added Jennifer: “This means the world to him.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The message at the stadium dominating the scoreboard as the Steinbrenner siblings accepted another Commissioner’s Trophy said it all:
        <span class="smallcaps">BOSS, THIS IS FOR YOU!</span>
        Hal, fresh off the phone with his father, said, “Dad is very, very happy.”
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">His final captain</span>
        would afford George Steinbrenner the last of his endless, priceless moments—and mementos—as Boss, even if he now went by Boss Emeritus. George Steinbrenner had, after all, made the unilateral decision to install Thurman Munson as captain thirty-five years after Lou Gehrig’s death. Steinbrenner the erstwhile Big Ten coach never could shake his football instincts and viewed captains differently, and more fondly, all of them: Graig Nettles and Willie Randolph, Ron Guidry and Don Mattingly.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Now Derek Jeter.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        One last time, Steinbrenner made the flight to New York. Once, as a young businessman crammed into a middle seat in coach, he’d sworn as his plane from Cleveland descended into LaGuardia Airport that he’d one
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_331" title="331" />
        day fly first class. Now, he’d made this trip thousands of times in his own jet. Once, the deciding factor for Gabe Paul to migrate from Cleveland to New York to help the young Boss build the foundation for this billion-dollar bonanza was how taken Paul—a fairly unimpressionable man his whole professional career—was with the forty-two-year-old version of this anonymous Ohio shipbuilder.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “There was a long period of time of ‘I will’ . . . ‘I won’t’ . . . ‘I will’ . . . ‘I won’t’ because the club’s books were so discouraging,” Paul said in April 1973. “Then I thought about George, who had nothing, whose father’s shipping business was nearly broke. He bought a secondhand car and drove to New York. He stayed at the YMCA because it was all he could afford. Finally, he found a small banker who loaned him a half million dollars to buy his father’s business, and he saved it. A man who could do
        <i>that</i>
        was worth going along with.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Now he was three months shy of eighty and required a wheelchair. But he wasn’t going to miss the home opener of the 2010 season, April 13. By now, the Boss Watch had been abandoned, so he arrived in Box 44 comfortably.</p>
      <p class="indent">Soon he was joined by two special guests.</p>
      <p class="indent">Jeter and Joe Girardi walked the forty or so steps from the Yankees’ clubhouse to the VIP elevator, stepped in the Boss’s suite and surprised him. They wanted to personally present his World Series ring. Jeter noticed the Boss was wearing two rings: one for the 2000 Yankees and one an Ohio State ring. Jeter looked into Steinbrenner’s eyes and laughed when he said, “Boss, take off that Ohio State ring.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner’s eyes brightened. He pointed at Jeter.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Michigan,” he said to Jeter, a son of Kalamazoo and nearly a Michigan Wolverine before the Yankees signed him out of the 1992 draft. Jeter took the 2000 ring off instead, replaced it with the 2009 one, and everyone applauded. Later, in the bottom of the third, before Jeter stepped to the plate the scoreboard camera captured Steinbrenner wearing sunglasses in his box as “My Way” played over the public-address system. Jeter waited a respectful amount of time for the 49,293 to roar for the Boss.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_332" title="332" />
        Then swung at the first pitch and dunked one over the wall in right-center.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Years later, after another similarly theatrical moment in his last at bat at Yankee Stadium, Joe Girardi would say of Jeter: “His life is a movie.” Now he’d save one of his favorite plot points for Steinbrenner’s final moment in the Bronx.</p>
      <p class="indent">“None of us would be here, the stadium wouldn’t be here, if it wasn’t for him,” Jeter said. “He’ll always be the Boss.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Ninety-one days later, sitting behind a podium at the All-Star Game, Jeter had this to say about that boss: “I was eighteen. Suddenly here he is, walking toward me, addressing me by name, and said, ‘We expect big things from you.’ I’ll always remember that.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Jeter was stone-faced. The news he’d received he’d been dreading for a long while, same as everyone around the Yankees. It might not have been stunning that George Steinbrenner died earlier that day, July 13, 2010, of a heart attack at his home in Tampa; it was still hard to immediately calibrate. He’d turned eighty just nine days earlier.</p>
      <p class="indent">After a few respectful days, it also became clear that the Boss left a remarkable legacy for his family, which you might call priceless except it absolutely had one. The federal estate tax expired the previous January, and that would’ve cost the family around a half billion dollars had the Boss passed in 2009. Had he died in 2011, the renewed law was to be upped to 55 percent, so it would’ve siphoned $600 million. Without an inheritance tax the Yankees remained comfortably in the hands of his children.</p>
      <p class="indent">It was a perfect bookend for an initial investment of $168,000.</p>
      <p class="indent">“One of a kind,” Reggie Jackson said.</p>
      <p class="indent">“A life almost impossible to imagine,” said his friend Donald Trump.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I still hate his guts,” said Howie Spira, who planned on holding his grudge long into the next life and beyond.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
