<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 26</title>
    <link href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch26">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_303" title="303" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch26">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch26">Chapter 26</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>We realize the Evil Empire is always out there, willing to do what’s in their best interests. We can’t control that. We recognize the threat is always there, and the Force will be with us.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—Larry Lucchino</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">T</span>
        he emergence of Larry Lucchino as the last great foil of his life—along with the corresponding revival of the Boston Red Sox, and that franchise’s boundless determination to reverse the stubborn tides of history—provided the last eruptions of Old Mount St. Steinbrenner, a volcano that had started to lay dormant.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">He was still a demanding Boss—still earned the capital “B” to those who really did work for him—but he found less and less need to feed the tabloids, and scream across the back pages. More and more, if something was bothering him, he’d call Howard Rubenstein, who fifty years earlier founded Rubenstein Associates, the most notable public relations firm in New York City. Rubenstein’s high-profile client list included Donald Trump and Rupert Murdoch, the Metropolitan Opera, and Michael Jackson. Rudolph Giuliani once dubbed him “the dean of damage control.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Through Rubenstein, the Boss’s colorful commentaries became so cliché-ridden and perversely purple that it became a regular bit on talk
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_304" title="304" />
        radio in New York to read them while fife-and-drum music played in the background.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">One example, just after the Angels eliminated the Yankees from the 2002 American League Division Series:</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <i>There is an old Scottish proverb that says, “I am wounded, but I am not slain. I shall lay me down and bleed a while, then I shall rise and fight again.” That should be the feeling of all Yankees today. As for me, my chin is not on my chest. And I don’t want anyone on my team to have his chin on his chest. . . . The Yankees have come to symbolize the spirit, strength and resilience of New York. . . .</i>
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">You weren’t getting “My gutless team spit the bit,” anymore.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The papers tried. Every time Steinbrenner was spotted anywhere near a Yankees game, they dispatched reporters to stake out the Boss’s favored entrances and exits. A twenty-two-year-old news clerk for
        <i>The New York Times</i>
        who’d been covering “mostly low-end shit, helping reporters on murders in the Bronx or in Brooklyn” received a call one day from the
        <i>Times</i>
        ’ baseball editor Jay Schreiber.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“You’re on Steinbrenner duty,” Schreiber said.</p>
      <p class="indent">Soon, it would be redubbed “Boss Watch,” and it was a distinctly unglamorous assignment: You’d stake out the front of the stadium. You’d throw questions at Steinbrenner; usually the most you’d get was a smile or a wave. You’d go up to the press box, watch the game, and, as soon as the traditional eighth-inning song—“Cotton Eye Joe”—played you’d hustle back down, wait for the Boss to leave, fire a few more questions. Sometimes he’d have something to say.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “Mostly,” Michael S. Schmidt says, “it was about playing defense. On the rare occasions he did have something on his mind, the
        <i>Times</i>
        wanted to make sure it wouldn’t only appear on the back pages of the tabloids.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Across the next twenty years Schmidt would win two Pulitzer Prizes and become one of the most decorated reporters in the country. Long before he covered presidents, he was sent out on Boss Watch thirty or so times
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_305" title="305" />
        to yell “How do you feel about the Yankees?” and hope for something in return like “We stink!”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“He still held a lot of currency,” Schmidt says. “It was also increasingly clear, as we were stuck behind barricades, that nobody wanted him to say much of anything anymore.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Larry Lucchino could still relight the smoldering embers of the Boss’s rage, however.</p>
      <p class="indent">The two had been at odds for years, ever since Lucchino became president of the Baltimore Orioles in 1988, working under Steinbrenner’s old Watergate attorney Edward Bennett Williams. They were dishwater and motor oil. One time at an ownership meeting, as a goof, Lucchino convinced the other attendees to show up wearing a white turtleneck and a blue blazer—Steinbrenner’s standard “uniform” by the early nineties.</p>
      <p class="indent">Everyone thought that hilarious. George thought it infantile.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I don’t think George even got the joke,” Lucchino said.</p>
      <p class="indent">When John Henry—once a limited partner with the Yankees and an old Steinbrenner friend—bought a controlling interest in the Red Sox in 2002, he hired Lucchino as team president. Steinbrenner’s simmering animosity toward Lucchino percolated.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I mean, look at me: a kid from Pittsburgh, president of the mighty Boston Red Sox. Are you kidding me?” Lucchino said. “If I can’t have fun with this job it’s a sin and a crime.”</p>
      <p class="indent">When Lucchino dubbed the Yankees the “Evil Empire” that made the Boss, by association, Darth Vader. Lucchino used the term for the first time, in October 2002, and it barely made a ripple.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “My guess,” Lucchino said, “is George never saw
        <i>Star Wars</i>
        .”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        The second time, though, it was the baseball equivalent of firing on Fort Sumter. The Yankees and Red Sox were both pursuing an exiled Cuban pitcher named José Contreras, who was greeting suitors at the Hotel Campo Real in Acoyapa, Nicaragua. The Sox put on a full-court press, renting all fourteen rooms so no other team could get close to him. The recruiting party Lucchino sent included his freshly hired twenty-eight-year-old GM, Theo Epstein, and a contingent of four Latin Red Sox front-office workers
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_306" title="306" />
        led by Luis Tiant, a great Sox pitcher of the seventies, who himself fled Castro’s Cuba. It seemed a brilliant flooding of the zone.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Contreras signed with the Yankees anyway, Steinbrenner approving a $32 million deal.</p>
      <p class="indent">Epstein, in the early hours of a surefire Hall of Fame career, threw a tantrum in his hotel room. Lucchino led with his lip.</p>
      <p class="indent">“The Evil Empire,” he said, “extends its tentacles even into Latin America.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        This time, Steinbrenner paid attention. This time he read those words on Christmas morning in
        <i>The New York Times</i>
        , and he detonated.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">There would be no call to Rubenstein Associates this time.</p>
      <p class="indent">This time it would be Boss, Unplugged.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “That’s
        <i>bullshit</i>
        !” he raged. “That’s how a sick person thinks. I’ve learned this about Lucchino: He’s baseball’s foremost chameleon. He changes colors depending on where he’s standing. He’s been at Baltimore and he deserted them there, and then went out to San Diego and look at what trouble they’re in out there. When he was in San Diego, he was a big man for the small markets. Now he’s in Boston and he’s for the big markets.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“He’s not the kind of guy you want in your foxhole. He’s running the team behind John Henry’s back. I warned John it would happen, told him, ‘Be careful.’ Lucchino talks out of both sides of his mouth. He has trouble talking out of the front of it.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Remember when everyone thought John Travolta’s career was over and then, out of nowhere,
        <i>Pulp Fiction</i>
        happened? This was the Boss as Vincent Vega. He was back. Who knew how long it would last, but for now, the bard of the back page cleared his throat and was fully reengaged.
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Whenever Steinbrenner did</span>
        go solo, on the record, he could still be counted on to keep his team on its toes—even its best player. After six years of brilliant play Derek Jeter earned a $189 million contract extension from the Boss—the richest in team history. The Yankees shortstop had a fine year in 2002, the first of his new deal—.297, eighteen homers, 124 runs
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_307" title="307" />
        scored—but it marked the fourth consecutive year his batting average and OPS dipped. Few in New York noticed, fewer still complained.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">One man noticed.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “How much better would he be if he didn’t have all his other activities?” Steinbrenner asked Wayne Coffey, the elegant feature writer for the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        , in a long sit-down in December 2002 in advance of his thirtieth year on the job. “I tell him this all the time: You can’t be everything to everybody. You’ve got to focus on what’s important.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Then, the money shot:</p>
      <p class="indent">“When I read in the paper that he’s been out until three a.m. in New York City going to a birthday party, I won’t lie. That doesn’t sit well with me. That’s the focus I’m talking about.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner had taken his sledgehammer to Billy Martin before, to Reggie Jackson and Thurman Munson, to Dave Winfield, even to Don Mattingly.</p>
      <p class="indent">But Jeter?</p>
      <p class="indent">That was like . . . well, it was unlike anything you might compare it to. Plus, Jeter always went to great lengths to keep this highest of public profiles in check. Once, in 1999, during a chat with a few trusted reporters, he’d said, “Look, I don’t ever want to see my name on Page Six, let alone page one.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Jeter kept an even lower profile than usual until he arrived at spring training. It was clear the Steinbrenner comments stung; it was also obvious he’d been paying a good deal of attention to the way Joe Torre expertly deflected so many Boss broadsides the past seven years.</p>
      <p class="indent">“He’s the boss and he’s entitled to his opinion . . .” Jeter said. “But what he said has been turned into me being this big party animal. He even made a reference to one birthday party. That’s been turned into that I’m Dennis Rodman now.”</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          As usual, Steinbrenner managed to spin this perfectly. An executive from the advertising agency Batten, Barton,
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_308" title="308" />
          Durstine and Osborn approached Steinbrenner and Jeter about doing a commercial for Visa. The result was priceless—Steinbrenner summoning Jeter to his office, saying, “You’re our starting shortstop. How can you possibly afford to spend two nights dancing, two nights eating out and three nights just carousing with your friends?” and ending with Steinbrenner at the back of a conga line after Jeter shows him his Visa card by way of explanation. The ad ran on endless loop for months.
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">Maybe it was coincidence, maybe not, but Jeter bounced back to hit .324 despite missing a month and a half after dislocating his shoulder. In June George Steinbrenner decided to add a little weight behind the expectations: He made Jeter the eleventh captain in team history, the first since Don Mattingly almost eight years earlier.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">In the Red Sox,</span>
        the Yankees now had a foe unlike any they’d ever encountered. For decades, Sox ownership—at first Tom Yawkey, then those entrusted with his estate—operated the team with the hope they’d be regularly competitive, they’d always have a deep supply of right-handed bats to take aim at Fenway Park’s famed wall and they’d keep drawing customers to the aging bandbox . . . and, every few years, have a team good enough to take a shot at first place. Under the three-headed leadership (and astride the deep pockets) of John Henry, Tom Werner and Larry Lucchino, with Theo Epstein tirelessly looking to upgrade the roster, the Sox announced a new chapter of this feud, which dated to 1920, when Sox owner Harry Frazee sold Babe Ruth to the Yankees.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“We are going to win a championship,” Henry declared early in the 2003 season.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I look forward to seeing them try,” Steinbrenner replied.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        What followed was two years of the most extraordinary baseball conceivable. Both sides loaded up on stars—Manny Ramirez, Pedro Martinez, David Ortiz, Curt Schilling and Nomar Garciaparra in Boston; Gary Sheffield, Roger Clemens, Hideki Matsui (the best player in Japan, dubbed “Godzilla”)
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_309" title="309" />
        adding to the Yankees’ core that won four championships. In the winter of 2004, both teams went full-throttle after the best player in the game: Texas Rangers shortstop Alex Rodriguez.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The Sox thought they’d made a deal for Rodriguez, a three-way trade that would’ve meant shipping away both Ramirez and Garciaparra. Rodriguez agreed to restructure the rest of the ten-year, $252 million deal he’d signed with the Rangers. At the last minute, the players’ union disallowed it and the deal was dead. Unknown to the Sox, their October tormentor—Aaron Boone, whose walk-off home run in the bottom of the eleventh inning of Game 7 of the ALCS clinched the ’03 pennant—blew out his knee playing pickup basketball. The Yankees needed a third baseman. They reached out to gauge A-Rod’s interest, which was high. Things moved quickly. And on February 17, 2004, Rodriguez was introduced wearing number 13 in pinstripes.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I keep waiting for someone to pinch me,” Rodriguez said.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Sox did, too. Henry cited an ESPN poll after the deal that said 57 percent of baseball fans characterized the Yankees/Rodriguez deal as “disgusting” or “sad.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Although I’ve never been an advocate of a salary cap in baseball out of respect for the players,” Henry said, “there is really no other fair way to deal with a team that has gone so insanely far beyond the resources of all the other teams.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner, staring at a payroll of near $180 million at a time when two-thirds of the league was under $100 million, took great delight in Henry’s bitterness, even greater enjoyment in volleying back.</p>
      <p class="indent">“We understand John Henry must be embarrassed, frustrated and disappointed by his failure in this transaction,” he said. “Unlike the Yankees, he chose not to go the extra distance for his fans in Boston.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        This all transpired just four months after the latest twist in the near-hundred-year struggle between the Yankees and the Sox. The 2003 ALCS was hard-fought—and in Game 3 that had been literal, when a benches-clearing brouhaha resulted in Yankees coach Don Zimmer charging at Pedro Martinez and taking a half punch before Martinez swung Zimmer
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_310" title="310" />
        to the ground. The teams were locked up 3–3 after six games, and the Sox took a 5–2 lead into the eighth with Pedro on the mound. But he tired, manager Grady Little inexplicably chose to keep him on the mound, the Yankees tied it at 5, and finally Boone unloaded on a Tim Wakefield knuckleball to send the Yankees to the World Series.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">It was a glorious series, and the jubilation in the Yankees’ clubhouse was met by a mirrored display of torment in the Sox’s room, where players hung on to each other and wept in the aftermath of this emotional bloodbath of a series.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner couldn’t help himself. This time, when the gaggle of reporters greeted him after the Yankees’ 6–5 win, he praised everyone: Jeter, Rivera (three innings of shutout relief), Boone, Torre. Then the conversation turned to his freshly vanquished opponent.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Go back to Boston, boys!” he said. “Goodbye! They didn’t treat us very well in Boston, you know. But we got the last laugh.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        A year later, the Boss was fixing to smile again, to tweak Henry and Lucchino again. They were still the two best teams in the American League, and unsurprisingly hooked up again in the ALCS. This time, it was going to leave a mark. The Yankees swept the first two games at Yankee Stadium, then stomped the Sox 19–8 in Game 3. No team in baseball history had ever come back to win a best-of-seven series after trailing 0–3; no team had ever even
        <i>forced a Game 7</i>
        out of that ditch. To make it all sweeter, the Yankees took a 4–3 lead into the bottom of the ninth of Game 4, three outs away from another conquering, with Rivera on the mound. Fenway was quiet as a crypt.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But Rivera walked Kevin Millar leading off. Pinch runner Dave Roberts stole second—barely—and Bill Mueller tied the game with an RBI single. In the twelfth, David Ortiz hit a two-run walk-off home run off Paul Quantrill. The Sox were alive.</p>
      <p class="indent">In Game 5, trailing 4–2 in the eighth, the Sox scored twice to tie. Again Ortiz came up in a huge spot, bottom of the fourteenth, man on second. Again, on the last of ten pitches from Esteban Loaiza, he hammered an RBI single. Now the Sox forced a Game 6.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_311" title="311" />
        George Steinbrenner, seeking to ladle out blame, found a target.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">A year earlier, unhappy at how the playoffs were starting, the Boss cornered his GM, Brian Cashman, and unleashed on him.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You’re horseshit, and you’re overpaid!” he lashed. “No one will take your contract off my hands! Maybe the Mets will take you. You have my permission to talk to the Mets.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner would outflank Cashman, deciding a few days later to pick up his option for 2004 so Cashman
        <i>couldn’t</i>
        talk to the Mets. Cashman grew used to this after six years on the job, but it still unsettled him. Now, with Ortiz singularly trying to reverse a curse that had merrily motored unencumbered for eighty-six years, it was hard not to remember a classic bit of revisionist history authored by his boss the Boss. Back in September 2003, when Ortiz was first starting to treat the Yankees as his personal punching bag, Steinbrenner invited Joel Sherman of the
        <i>Post</i>
        into his office.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I told Cashman in the offseason to sign Ortiz,” Steinbrenner said, referring to the previous winter, when the Minnesota Twins opted not to tender Ortiz a contract. “But he told me we already had two first basemen. I said, ‘Find a way!’”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Cashman had his reasons, good ones, for staying away, starting with the Yankees eight-year, $135.4 million commitment to Jason Giambi, and Giambi was coming off a forty-one-homer, 122-RBI year in which he’d finished fifth in the MVP vote. His backup, hard-hitting Nick Johnson, was their top prospect. The Yankees
        <i>did</i>
        have two first basemen. Ortiz? He’d yet to distinguish himself as a player or even gain regular playing time as a Twin.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Cashman confirmed Steinbrenner’s story to Sherman, but neither Sherman nor any of New York’s other two dozen full-time baseball writers could ever remember the Boss pining for Big Papi until he started tormenting them.</p>
      <p class="indent">And he was torturing them now.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        By the first inning of Game 7, after the Sox evened the series at 3 with a 4–2 win in Game 6, with most of New York braced for the impossible, which now seemed ever so inevitable, Ortiz walked to the plate in the top
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_312" title="312" />
        of the first, one on, two out. Baseball isn’t supposed to be this easy—this predictable—but by now all bets were off. Ortiz launched one into the seats in right. Cameras captured Steinbrenner shaking his head ruefully. It was 2–0, Sox. It would end 10–3, Sox. Eighty-six years later, the Sox finally punched back.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Larry Lucchino couldn’t wait to flex.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Somebody sent me a hat recently that said, ‘All Empires Fall,’” he said, champagne dripping off his topcoat. “I refused to wear it. But I might wear it a few hours tonight.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Everyone in the employ of the Yankees quietly waited for the tornado to strike. The Yankees had authored the worst collapse in baseball history. After writing so much of baseball’s history going back to 1920—almost all of it superb—this would be a permanent mark on their record, no getting around that. Surely Steinbrenner would blow his stack, if he hadn’t already.</p>
      <p class="indent">But a curious thing happened.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Red Sox fans in attendance at Yankee Stadium, so overwhelmed all night, engineered something of a palace coup, commandeering the lower bowl of Yankee Stadium just behind the Sox’s third base dugout. For a time, they tried in vain to drown out the final few replays of “New York, New York,” and when the Yankees finally pulled the plug on that, you could hear the Boston fans lift their voices to the sky.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“Thank you, Red Sox!”</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“Thank you, Red Sox!”</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“Thank you, Red Sox!”</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">A few of Steinbrenner’s underlings started to fume and began to fret the Boss might be on the verge of meltdown. They cautiously visited him in his office. They lodged their formal complaints, and Steinbrenner listened very carefully to each one.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “
        <i>They won’t go home, Boss</i>
        ,” they said.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “
        <i>They keep spraying champagne, Boss</i>
        ,” they argued.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner nodded. Then shook his head, leaned back in his chair.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Keep the lights on as long as they want to stay,” he said quietly. “They’ve earned it.”</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
