<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch21">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_246" title="246" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch21">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch21">Chapter 21</a>
      </h1>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="extt">
          <i>Steinbrenner was railroaded out of baseball on charges so flimsy it’s impossible to imagine his being taken to court on them.</i>
        </p>
        <p class="exti">
          —
          <span class="smallcaps">Marvin Miller</span>
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="noindent">
        <span class="dropcap">I</span>
        f a polling service tried to put a number on Fay Vincent’s approval rating on August 1, 1990, it probably would’ve been right around the 89 percent peak George H. W. Bush reached a little over six months later, in the wake of the first Gulf War. In the same way it would’ve seemed impossible Bush would be voted out of office twenty-one months later, the notion Vincent would similarly be out of a job would’ve been equally preposterous.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Vincent catapulted to prominence less than two months after assuming office, when a shattering earthquake devastated the San Francisco Bay Area on October 17, 1989, the initial tremors arriving minutes before the first pitch of World Series Game 3 between the Giants and Athletics, neighboring ball clubs in that stricken zone. Vincent’s calm but forceful leadership was universally lauded. His profile soared. His power inside the game quickly became absolute, virtually unassailable.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Now, he’d actually kicked George Steinbrenner—
        <i>George Steinbrenner!</i>
        —out of the game. Forever, if you believed such things. The rejoicing was emphatic in New York City, specifically among Yankees fans who’d wearied of Steinbrenner. Years later, many of those same fans would contract
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_247" title="247" />
        convenient amnesia, but in the days after July 30, 1990, almost all were boundlessly elated.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Vincent gave Steinbrenner until August 20 to get his affairs in order, name a replacement as managing general partner and a point man to conduct all baseball business in his absence. He wasn’t forced to divest what by now had grown to a 55 percent stake in the club, more like 60 percent when all family members’ shares were counted. Vincent warned Steinbrenner he wouldn’t be as disinterested in the details of his ban as Bowie Kuhn had been sixteen years earlier—especially when Gabe Paul, now eighty and living a peaceful retirement in Tampa, turned up in the newspapers admitting, “Yeah, I talked to George more than a few times in those days.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner soon realized what a foolish deal he’d struck. He’d been so worried about the USOC reacting to the word “suspension” he’d never pondered it might not be delighted by the word “expulsion,” either, so he resigned from the USOC—for the moment—while plotting a path to getting his sentence commuted.</p>
      <p class="indent">That would take hundreds of days, thousands of billable hours.</p>
      <p class="indent">His first choice was to hand the team over to thirty-three-year-old Henry George Steinbrenner III, eldest of the four children of George and Joan Steinbrenner, named for his paternal grandfather, nicknamed “Hank.” He’d spent some years apprenticing with the Yankees but had since retreated to Ocala, Florida, where he ran Kinsman’s Stud, the family horse farm. The elder Steinbrenner knew Hank might be reluctant and already believed that if one of his offspring were going to run the Yankees one day it would be his younger son, Harold—Hal—but Hal was a junior at Williams College and nowhere near ready for such responsibility.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The eighteen limited partners assured Steinbrenner that they’d happily nominate Hank, and Vincent pledged he wouldn’t stand in the way as long as the owners approved him, even though he knew Hank would never cut communication with his father. As Yogi Berra quipped, in the days after Steinbrenner’s punishment, when he was asked if this might end his boycott
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_248" title="248" />
        from Yankee Stadium, now in its fifth year: “I mean, I’ll have to see. Don’t you think the two of them will get together for holiday dinners?”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Hank spent a few years coaching high school soccer. Bernie Dickman, the editor of
        <i>The Florida Horse</i>
        magazine and friend to both father and son, saw a few games and was amazed at Hank’s demeanor. When George was Hank’s age, running the Cleveland Pipers of the ABL, he regularly stormed into locker rooms to berate players and coaches, was a loud presence in the stands.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">This was Hank: “He never raised his voice, not once,” Dickman said. “People who expect Hank to be George couldn’t be more wrong.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Hank was happy where he was. He didn’t have much of an appetite for New York, or running the Yankees, but he was willing to be a dutiful son. George appreciated that.</p>
      <p class="indent">Soon he hatched a different succession plan with the help of his legal team. They suggested Steinbrenner nominate Yankees CEO Leonard Kleinman despite knowing Vincent was sure to instantly reject that name because Vincent was still investigating Kleinman’s possible involvement in the Howie Spira mess. Kleinman, the man who did most of Steinbrenner’s unpleasant business when it came to the Yankees, was accused by Spira of expediting payment of the $40,000 payoff because he’d arranged a bank account for Spira even though he didn’t have enough money to open one. Vincent wanted Kleinman off the Yankees payroll.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner thought it folly to nominate Kleinman, but his lawyers patiently explained that when Vincent inevitably rejected Kleinman, Kleinman could sue.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “Why don’t
        <i>I</i>
        just sue him?” Steinbrenner asked.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        For the hundredth time, his lawyers explained he
        <i>couldn’t</i>
        sue, that part of the agreement he’d signed forbade him from suing baseball. Kleinman wasn’t bound by that. And if
        <i>he</i>
        sued, then Vincent would be forced by discovery to hand over the information he’d withheld about Dowd’s investigation. That would be ruinous. All Steinbrenner had to do was give Kleinman a fraction of a percentage point—a one-time payout of about $1 million—and make him a limited partner.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_249" title="249" />
        That, the Boss was advised, would set the wheels in motion.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner agreed. Robert Nederlander—brother of Jim, one of Steinbrenner’s original partners, now president of the family’s theater company—was prepped to replace Kleinman once Vincent took the bait.</p>
      <p class="indent">On August 20 Steinbrenner visited the stadium one last time, enjoyed a lunch in his honor, said his goodbyes. He and Don Mattingly had gone fifteen rounds time and again, but now Mattingly requested a brief visit and afterward said, sadly, “I’ve been privileged to see the other side of George Steinbrenner. I probably have a different perspective.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner drove away from the stadium weeping. But his last order of business before putting a two-paragraph letter of resignation in an envelope bound for 350 Park Avenue was one of the most inspired things he ever did. There were few people he ever trusted more than Gene Michael—even if it was hard to tell during Michael’s two stints as Yankees manager. Now he was entrusting Stick with his baseball team.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Do it your way,” Steinbrenner told his new GM.</p>
      <p class="indent">“This is a challenge, to bring back the Yankees,” Michael said. “I’m confident I can do it well.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Sixteen years earlier, Gabe Paul seized a similarly thin window of opportunity nudged open when Steinbrenner was banned by Bowie Kuhn. Paul immediately set about the task of building the core of a champion—with minimal interference, despite all those calls he now admitted receiving. The same opportunity awaited Michael. He knew he’d have to tiptoe through a minefield of Steinbrenner “counsel”—off the record, of course—but there would ultimately be no way the Boss could, say, insist on trading blue-chip prospect Bernie Williams (which he’d already come perilously close to doing) without inviting the commissioner to tighten the vise.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’ll make the decisions,” Michael said, and all that would do was alter the arc of Yankees history forever.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">On Saturday, October 20, 1990,</span>
        just past 11:30 p.m. on the East Coast, the cold open for the third episode of the sixteenth season of
        <i>Saturday Night Live</i>
        was a funny one: George Steinbrenner asleep on a
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_250" title="250" />
        couch in a locker room. Then we saw what he was dreaming about: playing all nine positions for the Yankees, and also every player sitting in the dugout. Announcer Don Pardo soon recited the cast members, a group that featured Dana Carvey, Mike Myers, Dennis Miller and Jan Hooks, among others. Pardo then introduced the musical guest that night, the Time.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And then . . .</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“And starring . . . George Steinbrenner!”</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        The audience roared. Tom Shales, the longtime TV critic for
        <i>The Washington Post</i>
        , suggested wryly “they must’ve filled the room with Mets fans.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">It seemed an odd zag for someone who’d fallen on his sword in the public square just two months before. He gave a credible performance (though, if he’d actually still had a day job, he probably wouldn’t have been urged to give it up). His most memorable scene was a skit in which he played a store manager incapable of firing anyone—“How do you fire a man?” he asked. “I just can’t fire people. It’s not in my nature.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        One skit he probably wished he could have back he played himself, welcoming a female sportswriter from the
        <i>New York Post</i>
        named Meghan (played by Hooks) to his office, there to lodge a complaint. When she enters he comes out from behind his desk wearing skivvies and socks, no pants. (It remains every bit as painful to watch as it sounds.)
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Yankees fans had other things on their mind that night.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Exactly sixteen minutes before NBC clicked on to
        <i>SNL</i>
        , over on CBS, a Cincinnati Reds pitcher named Randy Myers induced Carney Lansford of the Oakland A’s to pop up in fair territory to Reds first baseman Todd Benzinger. With that, the Reds cinched a sweep in the 1990 World Series with a 2–1 win. It was one of the most stunning upsets in the eighty-seven-year history of the series, a dizzying moment of triumph for the Reds.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And for their manager, Lou Piniella.</p>
      <p class="indent">In his office, his hair still soaked with champagne, Piniella was asked if he’d gotten a phone call yet. He smiled.</p>
      <p class="indent">“George? No. Not yet. I hear he has another job tonight.”</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_251" title="251" />
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          Piniella was just the latest ex-Yankee to find championship glory away from Steinbrenner. The most striking was 1985, when Dick Howser led the Kansas City Royals to their first title. Less than two years later, Howser died at age fifty-one from a malignant brain tumor. Steinbrenner was shaken. “Firing Dick Howser and not re-signing Reggie Jackson were the two biggest mistakes I ever made,” he said the day Howser passed, June 17, 1987. “We may not have had the right chemistry but I admired him greatly.”
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner could still share opinions about the Yankees. Throughout his exile, he’d occasionally take his familiar place on the back page. Though he was wary of taking calls at first, convinced Vincent was tapping his phones, he ultimately couldn’t help himself. He said Vincent told him he could take part in free agent signings (Vincent maintained he most certainly had not). He said he and Michael agreed Michael would run all personnel ideas by him first (Michael wasn’t familiar with that conversation).</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Michael fully understood how hard a task the rebuild would be. The Yankees finished 1990 67–95, barely avoiding the ignominy of losing one hundred games, still finishing last for just the second time since the
        <i>Titanic</i>
        collided with the iceberg. While Michael gave Stump Merrill another crack at managing in 1991, the talent level was still egregious—and Merrill was never going to be confused with Earl Weaver, either. They crept up to fifth at 71–91, but Michael knew he had to make changes. Soon after the season, he fired Merrill and all his coaches—including third base coach Buck Showalter, who’d previously won three minor-league championships managing Fort Lauderdale and Albany. Showalter was considered a rising star in the organization, but Michael was determined to hire a manager with experience. He told Showalter directly he should look for another job in baseball.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I tried to wreck the whole thing quick,” Michael described it years later, laughing.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_252" title="252" />
        But Michael was lucky and so, it turned out, was Showalter. Michael was close with one of Steinbrenner’s limited partners, Marvin Goldklang.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Stick called me up,” Goldklang said in 1994. “I said, ‘Look, you’ve forgotten more baseball than I’ll ever know. But don’t you think we should look for something other than guys who’ve already been fired by other teams?’”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Who do you have in mind?” Michael said.</p>
      <p class="indent">Goldklang pitched Showalter: thirty-five years old, who to that point had cashed only one paycheck in his life that wasn’t issued by the Yankees (when he’d been hired to clear some land when he was playing in Nashville for $5 an hour one off-day). Michael called Showalter. Showalter sold himself brilliantly. Michael took a chance. The selection drew praise from one especially invested Yankees fan.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I would say this young man is as bright and hardworking and detailed a guy as you’re ever going to find,” George Steinbrenner said.</p>
      <p class="indent">Installing Showalter was just one essential piece to an intricate puzzle few could quite see yet. A project like this wasn’t done quickly; though the Yankees started 6–0 under Showalter in 1992, they won only five more games for him than they had for Merrill in ’91, finishing fourth. There was little doubt if someone other than Gene Michael was in charge, someone else would have been the Yankees manager in 1993.</p>
      <p class="indent">“But honestly, the first week of spring training I watched Buck with the players, saw how beautifully he ran camp, saw how hard he worked, and I knew right away that this guy was something special,” Michael said.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Stick gave me a shot,” Showalter said in 2021. “And then he decided to stick with me. Not a lot of guys would’ve done that.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Michael still had to deal with the shadow government of an absent boss growing restless as his team kept losing. The benefit of finishing last in 1990 was the Yankees earned the first pick in the entry draft, and there was a five-star blue chip that everyone in baseball coveted: Brien Taylor, a flame-throwing nineteen-year-old who reminded every scout who saw him of a young Dwight Gooden. Taylor struck out 213 hitters in eighty-eight
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_253" title="253" />
        innings at East Carteret High School in North Carolina, walked only twenty-eight. His adviser, a ruthless agent named Scott Boras, engaged Michael in a protracted negotiation that stretched into August.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        It was then Steinbrenner decided to pop off to two reporters from
        <i>Newsday</i>
        : “I just don’t know what my people are doing or what they’re thinking. If they let him go, they ought to be shot!”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Armed with that fiery quote, Boras dug in even deeper until finally, on August 26, the sides agreed on a record $1.55 million deal. The
        <i>Newsday</i>
        reporters called Steinbrenner back.
        <i>This</i>
        time the Boss railed, “Never in my wildest dreams would I have paid a kid a million and a half. I said I’d love to see us sign him. I never said ‘go spend a million and a half.’ No goddamned way. I’m getting damned tired of people spending my money like this.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">In the moment, for the public, Michael said, “George might’ve handled that with a little more style than me, because he’s good at that. But he would’ve done the same deal.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Privately, Stick seethed, fried by the second-guess and because it was
        <i>Steinbrenner</i>
        who’d handed Boras the leverage to keep the fight going by threatening to metaphorically murder his own GM. He also knew Steinbrenner wouldn’t let this go. Sure enough, at the next quarterly meeting of the partners—Vincent signed off on Steinbrenner taking part in these—the Boss started to bitch about the Taylor signing, and Michael saw his opportunity.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “You don’t know what the
        <i>fuck</i>
        you’re talking about, George,” Michael snapped. “If it wasn’t for you in the papers we could’ve had the kid for a lot less.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Taylor never pitched an inning in the major leagues, his can’t-miss career sidetracked in December 1993 when he hurt his shoulder in a fistfight defending his brother. But for Michael, standing up to the Boss changed everything.</p>
      <p class="indent">“That impressed the hell out of us,” Goldklang said. “There was no question who was in charge.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Michael’s position was solid. Even as he stepped up his renovation, Steinbrenner was already inching closer to being back in the building.</p>
      <p class="noindentt">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_254" title="254" />
        <span class="bold">fay vincent, as</span>
        expected, took about thirty seconds to deny Kleinman’s nomination as managing general partner. It took Kleinman even less time to file a $22 million federal lawsuit against Vincent and John Dowd. Vincent figured this was just another poisoned dart from Steinbrenner, and treated the story as white noise.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Vincent’s hubris remained intact even as he realized his ideal of making Steinbrenner disappear forever was probably never going to happen. Vincent agreed to allow Steinbrenner to build a case for himself for reentry, but he intended to make the Boss sweat as long as he could.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Vincent made a point of attending the Yankees’ home opener April 15, 1991, made sure he was assigned the owner’s box—a seating assignment George Steinbrenner, still the Yankees
        <i>nominal</i>
        owner, could no longer occupy; if he wanted to see the Yankees in person, he needed approval from the commissioner’s office and could buy only a general-admission ticket. Steinbrenner sat in that box for every home opener since 1976; it had become a must-have among New York’s glitterati to earn an invite, where they could rub shoulders with Cary Grant, Richard Nixon, Ed Koch, Donald Trump, Barbara Walters, Jimmy Cagney—they all made the pilgrimage. It was said Vincent enjoyed the view just fine, even if he didn’t have any Page Six company.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">When Steinbrenner started sniffing for ways back in, hinting Vincent’s power wasn’t as absolute as he believed, the commissioner struck right where it hurt most, in Steinbrenner’s eternally red-white-and-blue-tinted soul: “I can’t think of anyone other than Saddam Hussein I’d rather have making these complaints.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner countered: “It only underscores the question many people in baseball have raised recently regarding [Vincent’s] ability to be commissioner and act rationally.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Howie Spira was convicted of blackmail in federal court on May 8, 1991. The most poignant moment of the trial came with Steinbrenner on the stand. US Attorney Gregory Kehoe showed him a list of phone numbers
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_255" title="255" />
        the Feds seized from Spira’s apartment. Steinbrenner’s own lawyers knew the names but hadn’t briefed Steinbrenner; they had an idea how he’d react.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Joan, that’s my wife,” he said in the witness box. “Henry, that’s my son. Rita . . .”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner began to cry.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Are you all OK, sir?” Kehoe asked.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m all right,” Steinbrenner choked. “Rita . . . that’s my mother.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Spira was as good as done as soon as Steinbrenner began to sob. He was sentenced December 10 to two and a half years, and as he was led away screamed, “I hope Steinbrenner never gets his team back. And I hope God knows what he did to me.” This capped a four-month tour where Spira had been everywhere, bashing Steinbrenner at every turn, infuriating Vincent, who realized the more Spira opened his mouth the more his case would suffer. Spira was recognized often in his travels, and when someone would ask “Are you . . . ?” he would happily identify himself.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m the guy who got rid of Steinbrenner!” he’d crow.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Every time one of these stories got back to Fay Vincent he’d die a little more inside. Howie Spira did the impossible. He’d actually made people feel
        <i>sorry</i>
        for George Steinbrenner.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Alas, so would Vincent.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        He and Steinbrenner played a game of chicken for weeks. The idea of bringing Steinbrenner back March 1, 1993, was floated—but only if Kleinman dropped the suit. He did. The men scheduled a face-to-face. Steinbrenner flew from Tampa and was driving to 350 Park Avenue when he received word: Vincent postponed the meeting indefinitely;
        <i>The New York Times</i>
        —by now Vincent’s fiercest, and lone, ally—was doing its own investigation of Steinbrenner’s behavior during his suspension. That was the appetizer.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        What followed that summer of 1992 was the main course that ended Vincent. The Yankees had a relief pitcher, Steve Howe, who’d been suspended seven different times for drug violations. Vincent handed him a lifetime ban, pending a hearing in front of arbiter George Nicolau. Gene Michael was summoned and told he wouldn’t be allowed to have a lawyer present. Specifically, Vincent didn’t want
        <i>Michael’s</i>
        lawyer—Robert Costello, one of
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_256" title="256" />
        the masterminds behind Steinbrenner’s side of the chessboard. A few weeks later, both Michael and Showalter were subpoenaed by Nicolau and asked their opinions about Vincent’s ruling. Both agreed there needed to be consequences for recidivist drug users in baseball but also said what Howe needed most was professional help for his addiction. Jack Lawn, the vice president of operations who, with some irony, was a former chief of the Drug Enforcement Agency, also testified. He said much the same as Michael and Showalter.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">A few days later, Michael received a call at home.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Be at the commissioner’s office at eleven o’clock sharp. No lawyers.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Lawn got the same message, as did Showalter, especially concerned since the Yankees had a one o’clock game that afternoon against Kansas City.</p>
      <p class="indent">The trio arrived on time, immediately confronted by an irate Vincent.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You have effectively tendered your resignation from Major League Baseball,” they were told. “The moment you all testified, you quit the game.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Vincent was upset the men honored the subpoena and hadn’t simply agreed with his ruling. Michael and Showalter were terrified. To them, specifically, Vincent sneered, “I’ll let you sweat through the weekend before you know if you still have jobs or not.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Lawn, who still looked like he could take down Pablo Escobar all by himself, was less cowed and far more outraged. To Lawn Vincent said, “I could not believe you would testify because of your interest in seeing Steve Howe in a Yankees uniform.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“That’s not why we testified,” Lawn replied. “We testified to tell the truth.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Then why would you want to testify?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Because a month from now if I pick up the paper and see that Steve Howe killed himself, at least I would know I tried to help. As I learned in the Marine Corps, you don’t abandon the wounded.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The men returned to Yankee Stadium five minutes before the first pitch. Slowly, methodically, they helped reconstruct their two hours with Vincent, and the resulting firestorm—everywhere except the
        <i>Times</i>
        —excoriated the commissioner. There was more. A few days later it was leaked that on June 18, Vincent sent a letter to all twenty-eight owners informing them he was revoking baseball’s Rules of Procedure, created by previous
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_257" title="257" />
        commissioners to establish protocols for matters of dispute—a safeguard against exactly the type of behavior Vincent and Dowd exhibited in investigating Steinbrenner.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Vincent turned baseball jurisprudence into a kangaroo court.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        And now, a lot of owners realized:
        <i>If Vincent can poke Steinbrenner with a stick like this, what’s to prevent him from doing the same to</i>
        us
        <i>?</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        As Chicago White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf told Bill Madden of the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        : “I don’t know why Vincent didn’t just rescind the Bill of Rights while he was at it.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        In the
        <i>Post</i>
        , columnist Mark Kriegel reported not only had Vincent assured Howie Spira at the outset, “You’ll never see the inside of a jail cell,” but also the genesis of the whole mess was when Vincent himself urged Spira to, in essence, set Steinbrenner up. Spira, ever helpful, had taped that conversation, too.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Vincent was finished. The owners waited until the commissioner tried to unilaterally impose division realignment to strike: By a count of 18–9–1 they issued a no-confidence vote. Vincent—who’d piously insisted for years “nobody is allowed to sue baseball”—briefly threatened to take the case of his dismissal to the Supreme Court if necessary, but September 7, 1992, he finally resigned.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Resigning, and not litigating, should be my last act on behalf of the ‘best interests of baseball,’” said Vincent, who died February 1, 2025, still convinced he’d been in the right in the Steinbrenner matter.</p>
      <p class="indent">George Steinbrenner waited a respectful hour after hearing the news.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then asked, none too subtly, “So . . . when do I get to come back?”</p>
      <p class="indent">His fellow owners nominated Bud Selig, owner of the Milwaukee Brewers, to serve as temporary commissioner. Selig felt compelled to honor at least a degree of Vincent’s ruling and told Steinbrenner he would be welcomed back March 1, 1993.</p>
      <p class="indent">“But what about free agency?” the Boss asked. “That’s my favorite time of year.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“March 1, 1993,” Selig repeated.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner had already endured twenty-five months of exile, and
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_258" title="258" />
        he’d already pulled off—Reinsdorf’s words—“the greatest resurrection in two thousand years.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">He could wait another six months.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Michael saw up</span>
        close the full extent of damage Steinbrenner’s long-term dismantling of the Yankees brand rendered. The free agent season of 1993 was crackling with franchise-altering talent, and the Yankees fixed their eyes on the three brightest available stars: David Cone, Greg Maddux and Barry Bonds. Maddux and Bonds—reigning Cy Young and MVP of the National League—played hard-to-get immediately. The Yankees offered to make Bonds the highest-paid Yankee in history. Michael wined and dined Maddux, took him to see
        <i>Miss Saigon</i>
        on Broadway. He appealed to Cone’s love of New York City, and his clear desire to stick it to the Mets for trading him the year before.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        They went 0-for-3. Maddux took less money to sign with the Atlanta Braves. Bonds went to San Francisco to play for the Giants, for whom both his father, Bobby, and godfather, Willie Mays, played. And Cone—seeing the looming labor calamity around the bend—took an $18 million deal with his hometown Kansas City Royals in which half was paid up front as a bonus, making it strike-proof. These high-profile swings and misses immediately brought heat and questions that weren’t entirely unfair: If Steinbrenner had been sitting next to Maddux and his wife during
        <i>Miss Saigon</i>
        would he have been able to close the deal? If George had done the wooing of Bonds would he have channeled the charm from sixteen years before when he’d simply refused to allow Reggie Jackson to sign anywhere else?
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Michael also had a belief system he insisted on honoring. He’d already made a high-risk trade, swapping Roberto Kelly (whom the Yankees had waited to blossom into a star; they were still waiting) for Paul O’Neill. In 1992 he signed Mike Stanley and Mike Gallego, low-profile free agents who brought instant professionalism to the clubhouse. Also in 1992 he gave final approval to selecting a skinny shortstop out of Kalamazoo, Michigan, with the sixth-overall pick in the draft, a seventeen-year-old named Derek Jeter.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_259" title="259" />
        More important, long before Billy Beane became a household name thanks to
        <i>Moneyball</i>
        , long before analytics seized control of the sport, Michael saw where the future of the game was headed. One day he invited the young beat writer for the
        <i>Post</i>
        , Joel Sherman, into his office and showed him a list of players with numbers next to their names. Sherman quickly realized the numbers were on-base percentage. And they were all low.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Our offensive innings go too fast,” Michael explained. “We make it too easy on the pitcher. We have to have better at bats.”</p>
      <p class="indent">With those twenty-one words, a new Yankee way was founded. It was why Michael insisted Bernie Williams be kept around, even as Steinbrenner raged at a variety of Williams errors of both commission and omission. It was what made even a teenaged Jeter so appealing, and all the quiet acquisitions. Michael wasn’t perfect; he exposed third baseman Charlie Hayes in the 1992 expansion draft, and he caught hell from Steinbrenner when the Colorado Rockies selected him. But even that had a positive effect. Steinbrenner deputized his son-in-law Joe Molloy, and when Bob Nederlander wearied of the job Molloy replaced him as managing general partner. Suddenly, the Yankees were in play for Wade Boggs, a five-time AL batting campion who’d compiled a .338 lifetime average through eleven seasons, all with the Red Sox. Molloy was the point man—he swore up and down he wasn’t being advised by anyone else—and while it was reported Showalter and Michael were less than pleased with the move, Boggs and his .428 lifetime on-base percentage were locked down to a three-year, $11 million deal.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Once Michael signed Jimmy Key away from the Blue Jays, the sting of losing out on Maddux and Cone faded, and for the first time in five years the Yankees headed for Fort Lauderdale with legit, genuine postseason hopes. They would soon be joined by an old friend. As if anyone could have forgotten, the March 1 issue of
        <i>Sports Illustrated</i>
        heralded the news with a picture of George Steinbrenner astride a white horse, wearing a Napoleonic uniform, his right hand tucked between the second and fifth buttons of his tunic, the headline reading:
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span class="smallcaps">GEORGE II: GEORGE STEINBRENNER RIDES BACK INTO BASEBALL</span>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
