<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 13</title>
    <link href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch13">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_143" title="143" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch13">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch13">Chapter 13</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>Mr. Steinbrenner and Thurman were very close. George was grooming Thurman to be a manager someday. The question I always had was how many times George would have fired Thurman and rehired Billy.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">
        —
        <span class="smallcaps">diana munson</span>
      </p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">T</span>
        hrough all the craziness, they’d never actually come to blows, any of them. Billy Martin and Reggie Jackson had come close. Thurman Munson, heart of hearts, would’ve loved nothing more than to take a swing at Jackson, and there were times when Jackson wouldn’t have minded rearranging the faces of fifteen or twenty of his teammates. There was an endless parade of verbal jousting, mostly on the back pages, some of it in the back of planes or buses. There was some awkward sniping. But nobody had ever thrown a punch before.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Then, on April 19, 1979, the Yankees lost a game to the Orioles, 6–3. Jim Palmer went the distance for Baltimore; Luis Tiant, one of George Steinbrenner’s prized free agent acquisitions the previous winter, got hammered. Afterward, the Yankees were picking at dinner plates, engaging in quintessential clubhouse bullshitting before the reporters came in. Reggie Jackson, seated between Goose Gossage and Cliff Johnson (neither had played in the game), was something of the master of ceremonies.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_144" title="144" />
        “Hey, Cliff,” he asked the hulking six-foot-four backup catcher, “how’d you hit Goose when the two of you played in the National League?”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Gossage, himself built like a linebacker, answered instead: “He couldn’t hit what he couldn’t see.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The room broke up laughing, even Johnson, who threw a rolled-up piece of tape at Gossage. But a few minutes later, as Gossage emerged from the shower room, Johnson approached again.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Did you mean what you said before?” he asked.</p>
      <p class="indent">Gossage laughed him off. But Johnson wasn’t playing around. There were pushes. There were shoves. There were soft punches. Then harder ones. Then Gossage felt a shooting pain in his right thumb, which was attached to his three-million-dollar right arm.</p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson—amazed and more than a little relieved that something like this had happened and didn’t involve him—said, “The Big Guy with the boats ain’t gonna like this.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The Big Guy with the boats was, in fact, enraged when he heard about it. Steinbrenner called Bob Lemon, asked him, “How could you let this happen?” and Lemon reminded Steinbrenner that he managed a baseball team, not a kindergarten.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I had a few fights in my day,” Lemon said.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Were you smart enough not to hit anyone with your right hand?” he was asked.</p>
      <p class="indent">“If you’re smart,” he said, taking a long drag on a cigarette, “you wouldn’t be fighting in the first place.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner wanted to fine both his players, withhold their paychecks for as long as Gossage was out. That meant close to $100,000 for Gossage, and Steinbrenner knew that would never fly with the union, but it reflected just how incensed he was. Winning had become an addiction, and now the Yankees would have to play two months without their top relief pitcher.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Terrible judgment,” Steinbrenner said. “Like two juvenile delinquents.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The Yankees actually won the next day to move into first place in the East, the only day they would spend there all year. For the first time,
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_145" title="145" />
        Steinbrenner was learning that reaching the summit in baseball was a whole different assignment than staying there.
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">There was actually</span>
        a name for it now. Bowie Kuhn used it privately, whenever he began to fret about escalating player salaries and the shift in the balance of power in his sport. Newspaper columnists used it constantly. Fans of teams other than the Yankees used it as a certain path toward prosperity for their franchises of choice.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The word was “Steinbrennerfication.”</p>
      <p class="indent">It was especially felt in New York City, where after Steinbrenner’s rapid run to the pinnacle no team executive in any sport would ever again be able to sell five-year rebuilding plans. Executives would grumble that the people who wanted them to behave as Steinbrenner had conveniently forgot the chaff that went along with all the wheat in a true Steinbrennerfication—the egos, the headaches, the indulgences—but those laments, more and more, were being aired either at farewell press conferences or in angry phone calls with one another.</p>
      <p class="indent">“People ask me all the time, ‘Why can’t you be more like George Steinbrenner?’” Wellington Mara said in 2000. “And I tell them, ‘I’m exactly like George Steinbrenner.’ We both act like fools when we lose, and the people who work for me don’t want to answer the phone the day after. I just keep my feeling private. George likes to play newspaper folks one off the other. Different strokes.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Mara, whose family bought into the NFL in 1925 and who co-owned the Giants for forty-six years beginning in 1959, had a close look at how his fans—many of whom were also Yankees fans—steadily lost patience with the old ways of team building. By 1978 the Giants had gone fifteen years without making the playoffs. In early December, a group of fans organized a protest. In the parking lot they burned their tickets for that day’s Giants–Rams game; in the sky they rented a small plane that carried a message for Mara:
        <span class="smallcaps">15 YEARS OF LOUSY FOOTBALL—WE’VE HAD ENOUGH.</span>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">One of the ringleaders, a fan named Ron Freiman, summed up their feelings:</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_146" title="146" />
        “They need a different philosophy here,” Freiman said. “They need to spend money. Call up George Steinbrenner and ask him how he does it.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">In a compelling irony, it was Michael Burke who most closely and publicly tried to emulate—even outdo—Steinbrenner. Burke, now running Madison Square Garden, engaged in a yearslong struggle to put the financial muscle of the Garden and New York City into reloading the Knicks, chasing an endless list of big-ticket players to restore the basketball team to prominence. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. George McGinnis. Wilt Chamberlain. Julius Erving. Bill Walton. He whiffed on all of them. And the big-ticket players he did get—Bob McAdoo, Spencer Haywood—were so unpopular they virtually emptied the Garden by themselves.</p>
      <p class="indent1">“A lot of swings,” was how Burke described it in 1981, “and a lot of misses.”</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          A few weeks later Burke would leave the Garden and retire to Ireland. Before he did he divested himself of his Yankees stock. At his final partners meeting he and Steinbrenner parted warmly.
        </p>
        <p class="exti3">Burke stood and said, “George’s performance as general partner has been unique, an unmatched formula for success.”</p>
        <p class="extiz">And Steinbrenner rose and reminded his partners, “Never forget that Mike laid the foundation here—the rebuilt team, the new stadium. If it weren’t for Mike, none of us would be here.”</p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">
        Nobody suffered by comparison more than the Mets, though. By 1979 they drew 788,905 fans to Shea, just nine years after they’d set a New York City record with more than 2.7 million. M. Donald Grant, the team’s chairman and chief decision-maker, had proudly and defiantly declared he would take the extreme opposite path Steinbrenner did at the dawn of free agency, opting for in-house development and patience (when in truth neither he nor Joan Payson’s heirs wanted to spend any money to actually acquire good baseball players). To the end, to the day he was removed from power, he believed he was right. A year later the family sold the Mets to a group headed by publishing scion Nelson Doubleday, and for the first time,
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_147" title="147" />
        Steinbrenner would finally have a rival within his own city willing to match him dollar-for-dollar.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But it would take them a while—seven years, in fact—to finally catch up. By then, Steinbrennerfication was rampant in sports. For better and for worse.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">In theory it</span>
        sounded wonderful. Steinbrenner looked at his roster, saw not only the surplus of six-figure contracts but also realized that, necessarily, most of those players had already passed thirty. In 2025 the prevailing school of thought is to maximize players in their twenties, when they have, in most cases, failed to cash in on their talent. Steinbrenner was actually well ahead of the curve on that. He would still use the checkbook when needed—Luis Tiant and Tommy John came for a cool $5 million between them, and he dabbled with free agent Pete Rose, toyed with trading for the Twins’ Rod Carew—but he was determined to find alternate ways to build sustainable rosters.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I think he meant it, too, he said it enough,” Gene Michael laughed one day in 2014. “But, you know, it wasn’t ever going to be his way to sit idly by and comfortably watch an eighteen-year-old kid blossom over the course of six years.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Michael spent that 1979 season leading the Yankees Triple-A team in Columbus to the International League title. Steinbrenner had big plans for him. For now, he didn’t much care for what he was seeing at all at Yankee Stadium. The Yankees dipped into fourth place in late April and there they sat in the middle of June. Reggie Jackson hurt his leg. Ron Guidry lost his bulletproof vest and volunteered to go to the bullpen when Gossage was hurt, and Lemon complied.</p>
      <p class="indent">“My teammates picked me up last year,” he said. “I wouldn’t have won twenty-five without them.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner praised Guidry’s selflessness. Others had differing opinions.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You’re a fuckin’ idiot,” Thurman Munson, the captain, told him. “They’ll screw you over this. You watch.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_148" title="148" />
        As the weeks trudged along, one thing was certain: The team lacked energy. They played without fire. And it wasn’t just Steinbrenner who noticed it, and sadly it was clear what the issue was. Just one month after riding shotgun with Steinbrenner at the Yankees’ victory parade, Bob Lemon’s world came shattering down around him: His youngest son, Jerry, was killed in a car crash.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“When he died,” Lemon admitted that spring, “a part of me died with him.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Lemon’s stern-but-quiet personality had been the perfect remedy for the Yankees in 1978. Now it was seen as a hindrance. He was drinking more. He was laughing less. It didn’t take a lot of clairvoyance to see Steinbrenner’s brain was stirring.</p>
      <p class="indent">Billy Martin, the sequel, awaited.</p>
      <p class="indent">But Martin hadn’t exactly spent his time away in a monastery. He’d opened a western-wear store in Manhattan, and when someone asked what he’d recommend Reggie Jackson to buy if he ever stepped into the store, Martin couldn’t help himself.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Something in shark would fit,” he said. “Don’t you think?”</p>
      <p class="indent">A few days later, asked again about Jackson, Martin said, “I don’t like pitchers coming into my office every day and saying, ‘I’m not going to pitch if he plays right field.’” When the Yankees pitchers were contacted none of them backed that one up.</p>
      <p class="indent">But Martin’s biggest problem was his oldest problem.</p>
      <p class="indent">In November Martin flew to Reno, Nevada, to help out an old friend, Bill Musselman. If there was a basketball-coach soulmate to Martin, it was Musselman: a brilliant strategist whose anger and inner demons always sabotaged him. They’d met in Minneapolis when Musselman was the head coach at the University of Minnesota (one of his players was a forward named Dave Winfield). By 1979, after American Basketball Association stops in San Diego and Norfolk, Musselman was coaching the Reno Bighorns of the Western Basketball Association. He invited Martin to a game to sit courtside. After, Martin retreated to a bar near the entrance of the Bighorns’ arena, Centennial Coliseum.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_149" title="149" />
        A twenty-five-year-old reporter for the
        <i>Reno Evening Gazette</i>
        named Ray Hagar approached Martin there, asked if he could talk a few minutes. Martin was annoyed at first, and also a few drinks in, but after Hagar said his boss was on his ass to get a story from him, Martin—not exactly unfamiliar with a demanding boss—relented.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“OK, kid,” he said. “I’ll give you the interview.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Hagar nervously asked about Sparky Lyle being traded that day. Martin hadn’t heard anything about that, so his mood immediately turned foul, knowing Steinbrenner had dealt away one of his favorites without even a heads-up.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then Hagar asked, “Will you be able to get along with Reggie Jackson . . . ?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Reggie Jackson,” Martin said, his voice rising, “will have to play on my terms, not his. I’ve got one set of rules for guys. There are no superstars in my eyes.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Hagar read from a recent Associated Press story that quoted Martin saying Jackson “lacked true Yankee spirit and would never be a true Yankee.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Did you hear me say that?” Martin said, his face reddening.</p>
      <p class="indent">“No,” Hagar said. “It’s in this AP story . . .”</p>
      <p class="indent">And that was that. Martin demanded Hagar’s notebook, lunged for it, said, “You writers are always looking to stir me up” and started spitting out the names of Murray Chass and Henry Hecht and Phil Pepe. Hagar refused to give up the notes.</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin punched him in the face. Hagar’s glasses flew off his face. His body sagged.</p>
      <p class="indent">Some people jumped in, tried to calm Martin, thought they had.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then Martin hit him with another.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Hagar went to the hospital, and when he was patched up he pressed charges for battery. He later filed civil charges, too. He had a cut lip, three chipped teeth and a blackened right eye. That image of his battered face was in every newspaper in America by morning, including the
        <i>Tampa Tribune</i>
        . George Steinbrenner spit out his coffee.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Then he called Al Rosen.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_150" title="150" />
        “Billy has to be found innocent of the criminal charges,” he said. “And if he pays any settlement money in the civil suit, that’s the same thing as losing.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Rosen called Eddie Sapir. Sapir called Martin.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Judge,” Martin said, “I slugged the guy. I didn’t mean to, and I wish I didn’t. But how are we going to get away with saying it never happened?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Sapir, a municipal court judge and New Orleans city councilman for many years, knew his way around the judicial system every bit as well as his friend knew when to call for a suicide squeeze. He convinced the Bighorns to cover Hagar’s medical costs, so Hagar abandoned the civil suit. He then persuaded Hagar to drop criminal charges in exchange for an apology—which Martin never made, settling instead for an all-smiles-and-handshakes photo on May 24 that also made all the papers.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner saw that one, too. He was satisfied.</p>
      <p class="indent">Three weeks later Steinbrenner flew to Dallas. On Friday, June 15, he had a two-hour breakfast with Lemon and at the end delivered his verdict: “I think it’s time for a change.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Lemon, ever the good soldier, said, “OK.” And he agreed to manage through the weekend, even as the lamest of ducks. Rosen, Lemon’s close friend of thirty years, wasn’t nearly as understanding. Within a few weeks he tendered his resignation, saying: “When an employee can’t get along with the boss, then the employee has to leave.”</p>
      <p class="indent">That night, word began to ricochet through the Yankees’ clubhouse, and the news kneecapped Reggie Jackson. He’d begged Steinbrenner to, at the least, give him fair warning when he planned on bringing Martin back. He’d heard nothing. Still on the disabled list with a bad leg, he spotted Steinbrenner sitting beside the Yankees’ dugout at Arlington Stadium.</p>
      <p class="indent">“How can you do this?” he asked. “You know how I feel about that man.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“You’ll play for who I tell you to play for,” Steinbrenner said, and then he saw the hurt in Jackson’s eyes, and he leaned closer.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You’d better get your head screwed on straight, boy.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        In the moment, Jackson was focused on just how miserable his life was about to become. Steinbrenner had revised Martin’s contract, given him two years at $120,000 per, finally making him a six-figure manager. And as
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_151" title="151" />
        the season dragged, something else about that last sentence,
        <i>the last word of that last sentence</i>
        , ate at him, too. Reggie Jackson wasn’t going to forget that.
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Sometimes, a fourth-place</span>
        club is just a fourth-place club. The 1979 Yankees were a fourth-place club for Bob Lemon, they remained a fourth-place club under Billy Martin, they would’ve been a fourth-place club under Miller Huggins or Joe McCarthy or Casey Stengel. By August the Yankees were fourteen games out again, but the ’79 Orioles weren’t the ’78 Red Sox. Even a three-game sweep of the White Sox in early August didn’t move the needle in the AL East, although it did bring a moment of hilarity and a few more moments of hysteria when a woman visited the Yankees team bus and dropped her shorts. Invited on to the team bus, she repeated the trick a few more times, and volunteered to flash her top, Mardi Gras–style, too. A Chicago reporter dutifully reported this but erroneously added that a few Yankees volunteered to autograph her, er, assets. Steinbrenner flipped until photographic evidence emerged that the woman had left the bus uninked.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">By the time that story made the rounds in late August, everyone could use the laugh.</p>
      <p class="indent">Because the phone call that arrived in George Steinbrenner’s office late in the afternoon of August 2 shattered everyone.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I must talk to Mr. Steinbrenner!” the frantic voice on the other end of the line said. “It’s a matter of life and death!”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner took the call. That’s how he learned that Thurman Munson had died in a plane crash at the Akron-Canton Airport, practicing takeoffs and landings in his new Cessna Citation jet.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Oh my God,” Steinbrenner gasped, his eyes watering. “Oh no.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        For three years, Munson had all but begged Steinbrenner to trade him to Cleveland, an hour north of Canton, which is where his wife and three young children lived full-time. Not long after the bitter back-and-forth with Steinbrenner after the Jackson signing, Munson began to think about buying his own plane to commute home on off-days. He’d bought his first one, a Beechcraft Duke, in the summer of 1978 and mastered it quickly;
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_152" title="152" />
        he’d recently upgraded to the Cessna, a heavier, more difficult aircraft for inexperienced pilots to conquer.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Every opportunity I had, I tried to talk him out of the jet,” Steinbrenner said later. “Time and time again, in the presence of many people. I said: ‘Sell it, you don’t need a jet. Being a jet pilot is a full-time business. You couldn’t do it [and also be a baseball player]. It’s just too demanding and too exacting an operation.’”</p>
      <p class="indent">But Munson was unmoved. Before the ’78 season he threatened he’d retire if he didn’t get traded; when Steinbrenner called his bluff he insisted on an amendment to his contract allowing him to fly on off-days. Steinbrenner reluctantly agreed. Ironically, in the days before the crash, Steinbrenner called his old friend Gabe Paul in Cleveland to gauge his interest in acquiring Munson.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Of course,” Paul said. “Let’s see what we can put together.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Instead, they gathered for a funeral on the afternoon of Monday, August 6, a celebration of Munson’s life that filled a civic center. The Friday before, the Yankees held an emotional ceremony honoring Munson before a game with the Orioles, leaving home plate unoccupied during the national anthem while Reggie Jackson openly and unabashedly wept in right field. Now, at the funeral, his best friend, Bobby Murcer—whom Steinbrenner had reacquired from the Cubs a few weeks earlier—delivered a eulogy so powerful that George Steinbrenner, publicly stoic till then, began to cry: “He should be remembered as a man who followed the basic principles in life,” Murcer said. “He lived. He led. He loved.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Hours later, insisting on playing that night to honor his friend, Murcer drove in all five runs—including a two-run walk-off double—to help the Yankees to a 5–4 win over the Orioles on national TV. In the dugout, he fell into the arms of Lou Piniella, who’d also eulogized Munson that day. Later, on the verge of exhaustion, he told a throng of newsmen: “That’s for Thurman.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Murcer, though, returned to a team that looked and felt much like the ones he’d played on from 1969 to 1974, hopelessly out of a playoff race and playing out the string. Of course, those earlier teams didn’t have a centrifugal force like Reggie Jackson at their core. Not only was Jackson having
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_153" title="153" />
        his finest season as a Yankee to date—.297 average, twenty-nine homers, eighty-nine RBIs despite missing thirty-one games—he also found a certain tranquility playing under Billy Martin, who actually said late in the year that Jackson was a pleasure to manage.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But there was another scab to be picked.</p>
      <p class="indent">This one by the owner.</p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson was still fuming about the lecture Steinbrenner gave him back in June, and he was still angry at being called “boy.” This began a weeklong game of back-page Ping-Pong.</p>
      <p class="indent">“George slurred me racially that day,” Jackson said in early September. “He emphasized ‘boy.’”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner had been stung when Jackson hinted at racism two years earlier, and he was even angrier now. “I’m no racist,” he said. “I’ve never uttered a racial slur in my life. One word doesn’t make a man racist. Reggie knows that, and what’s more he knows
        <i>me</i>
        . Look at what a man does in his life.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">He vowed to trade Jackson once and for all, and to a losing team, any losing team.</p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson retorted that he had an amendment in his contact forbidding him from being traded to a team not of his choice.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner spitefully refused to allow Jackson to talk at a ceremony honoring the retiring Catfish Hunter, Jackson’s teammate for ten seasons, with whom he’d won five World Series. Steinbrenner also hinted Jackson was in financial peril.</p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson laughed at that one.</p>
      <p class="indent">“What does he want me to do, shine his shoes and wash his boats?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner answered back: Billy Martin, he said, had started to demand Jackson be traded because he was disruptive in the clubhouse and abusive of fans near the dugout who heckled him.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I never said that,” Martin insisted. “I
        <i>never</i>
        said that.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner visited Martin in his office. When it was over, Martin said, “If you pay me $500,000 a year, I’ll kiss your butt in Times Square. It’s an honor to be a Yankee.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_154" title="154" />
        A day later Steinbrenner said, “I pity Reggie. I do.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">To which Jackson said, “I’ll never trust a word that man says ever again.”</p>
      <p class="indent">And yet, after all of this, in the season’s final week, Jackson said he wanted to stay with the Yankees, stay in New York, stay and play for Martin and Steinbrenner and all the emotional taxes and surcharges that went along with it.</p>
      <p class="indent">“George has to win this battle, he has to have the last word, and when he gets his back up he does something like this,” he said. “But this is where I want to be. I hope it just ends right here.”</p>
      <p class="indent">For Jackson, for now, it did.</p>
      <p class="indent">For Martin?</p>
      <p class="indent">Well, Steinbrenner for one believed Martin was officially transformed. In early October he said, “Billy’s more relaxed now. He’s cooperative. He’s interested in a lot of things about the welfare of the team he wasn’t before and that makes me feel good. I don’t care what he says, he’s a different Billy Martin.”</p>
      <p class="indent">It would take less than a month for Steinbrenner to find out just how wrong he was.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">This time, you</span>
        could make a reasonable case Martin did what almost any man in a saloon would have done—if only these kinds of incidents hadn’t seemed to follow him around from saloons to taverns to bars and grills from coast to coast in four different decades.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">This time, it was a man named Joseph W. Cooper, a fifty-two-year-old resident of Lincolnshire, Illinois, who happened to take the seat next to Billy Martin at the Chez Colette, the restaurant on the ground floor of L’Hotel de France in Bloomington, Minnesota. Martin was there with his friend Howard Wong, a local restaurateur who had also been with Martin in Reno eleven months earlier. Martin was a couple of drinks into a nightcap. So was Cooper. Martin was not an aloof barfly; he regularly chatted up his fellow patrons enjoying the gargle.</p>
      <p class="indent">So it was that Cooper and Martin started talking baseball.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_155" title="155" />
        “I think Dick Williams did a hell of a job this year with Montreal,” Cooper said. “And Earl Weaver, he did a great job with the Orioles, too.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">It’s possible Cooper could have picked a more flammable subject than this, but not likely. Martin intensely disliked Weaver, who he thought was able to get away with intimidating umpires freely and being called “colorful” while he, Martin, was regularly roasted for being out of control, often called “maniac” or “lunatic.” And Williams? Jesus, how many times had Steinbrenner held Dick Williams over his head? And Williams had never—not once—resisted Steinbrenner’s offers when he was between jobs to come and take in a few ball games Martin was managing.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Well, Weaver’s an asshole and Williams is an asshole,” Martin told Cooper. “And you’re an asshole for bringing them up.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Cooper shrugged.</p>
      <p class="indent">“What do you know about baseball anyway?” Martin asked. “What do you do for a living?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m a salesman,” Cooper said.</p>
      <p class="indent">“What do you sell?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Marshmallows.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin burst out laughing.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Everyone laughs when I tell them,” Cooper said later.</p>
      <p class="indent">Now Martin peeled off five hundred-dollar bills and slapped them on the bar.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Here’s five hundred dollars to your penny that I can knock you on your ass,” Martin said, and by this point Cooper admitted he was a bit in the cups himself.</p>
      <p class="indent">“The time comes when pride comes into focus,” Cooper explained. “I put a penny on his five hundred dollars and said, ‘Let’s go.’”</p>
      <p class="indent">They made it as far as an archway separating the bar and the lobby when, Cooper’s version, Martin wheeled and slugged him in the mouth.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I assume all of his fights have been sucker punches,” Cooper said.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Cooper, like Martin, wanted to forget it. He never went to the hospital. He never went to the police. He didn’t go to the press because he knew that would mean trouble for Martin. The bad news for Martin was that
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_156" title="156" />
        a security guard who didn’t witness the fight felt compelled to alert the Bloomington Police. Someone in the police department tipped off a local newspaper. And suddenly Billy Martin was back in the news again. His first instinct was to deny; he actually said Cooper slipped and fell on his own. When he did that’s when Cooper cleared his throat in an effort to clear his own name. But even before that, Steinbrenner knew better than to believe Martin’s absurd side of the story. Not again. Never again. He called Eddie Sapir.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Eddie, who the hell is Howard Wong,” Steinbrenner asked him, “and why is he always around for these fights?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Sapir laughed, but Steinbrenner wasn’t in the mood.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “Eddie, that guy in Minnesota fell and hit a marble floor.
        <i>The manager of the New York Yankees probably put him there!</i>
        The guy could’ve hit his head and been killed! What would we do then? I can’t keep going through this.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner told Sapir he was firing Martin, even before he began investigating the incident. “If I don’t do it, Bowie [Kuhn] might beat me to it. He’s sick of his shit, too.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Sapir would raise an appropriate fuss when Steinbrenner announced the firing, although thirty-five years later he would admit to Martin biographer Bill Pennington: “The fact was, Billy was in trouble. And, you know, we couldn’t turn that around.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Billy Martin’s second—and presumably final—tenure with the Yankees lasted ninety-five games, and he’d won fifty-five of them. Steinbrenner quickly called Dick Howser, the former third base coach who’d spent 1979 coaching at his alma mater, Florida State, and hired him to replace Martin. He elevated Gene Michael to general manager. He’d spent October watching the Orioles, Angels, Pirates and Reds, and he didn’t like it one bit, so he busied himself to make sure there would be another trip up the Canyon of Heroes, and if someone had told George Steinbrenner that it would be seventeen years before that would happen he’d have screamed you out of his office.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
