<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 18</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch18">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_206" title="206" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch18">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch18">Chapter 18</a>
      </h1>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="extt">
          <i>I have to admit there have been times this year when I’ve thought, “This is bullshit. Why take this? Let me go to a normal club where all they do is play baseball.” And I want that. But I love this uniform. I wouldn’t want to give it up.</i>
        </p>
        <p class="exti">
          —
          <span class="smallcaps">Don Mattingly</span>
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="noindent">
        <span class="dropcap">Y</span>
        ogi Berra knew, as well as anyone could, what he was walking into. He’d returned to the Yankees amid great fanfare after an eleven-year exile in 1976, he’d served as a faithful lieutenant/first base coach/bench coach to Billy Martin, Dick Howser, Bob Lemon, Martin again, Howser again, Gene Michael, Lemon again, Michael again, Clyde King, and Martin. Again. He’d survived mainly by being Berra: humble to a fault, loyal, gregarious, a walking baseball encyclopedia equally comfortable among Yankees legends (of which he was a charter member) and unknown spring training kids who were scared out of their minds. He’d seen up close the effect Steinbrenner had on his managers.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“You can’t say I didn’t know,” Berra admitted in 2002. “Maybe you can say I should’ve been smarter, I guess. But how many times is someone going to ask you to manage the New York Yankees?”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        He didn’t have to wait long to discover what the job was really going to be. In the fourth game of the 1984 season in Arlington, with the Yankees and Rangers tied at 6–6, Texas shortstop Curt Wilkerson sent a
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_207" title="207" />
        routine grounder to Yankee shortstop Bobby Meacham, a twenty-three-year-old rookie who’d shown some promise in ’83 and had a terrific spring. Meacham bobbled it, threw late to Ken Griffey at first, allowing Pete O’Brien to trot in with the winning run.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Meacham was unhappy but showed himself to be a pro by answering every question with unswerving confidence. “It came up on me a little bit,” he said after. “I shouldn’t have bobbled it, but it happens once in a while. I still thought I had time with a strong throw. The throw was right there.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        George Steinbrenner was not as impressed with Meacham’s composure. The next morning he called GM Bill Bergesch and demanded that Meacham be sent to the minors—and not to Triple-A Columbus, either. He’d be going to Nashville, in
        <i>Double-A</i>
        .
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Meacham, again, took all of this well: “Mr. Steinbrenner believes it will help the team, and he wouldn’t have done it if he didn’t believe it. He wants to win more than anyone.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Others weren’t as serene. Don Baylor, who’d quickly become a vocal leader in the clubhouse, seethed: “You wonder how something like this will affect a kid down the line. It could destroy his confidence. This could be very damaging.” (Meacham wound up being recalled eight days later, but while he played 457 games in a six-year career, all with the Yankees, he never did match the stardom predicted for him.)</p>
      <p class="indent">Berra was furious. Steinbrenner never even bothered to get his input.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It’s not my decision,” he snapped. “I had nothing to do with it.”</p>
      <p class="indent">That was the start. Steinbrenner’s fury was muted as the Tigers ran away with the East, but his second-guessing was never put in a closet, not completely. And he had a wingman now to do a lot of his bidding. When the Yankees arrived in Seattle in May they were greeted by a familiar mustachioed face: Billy Martin’s. Martin was trim and tan and looked ten years younger, the standard effect of his forced sabbaticals. Berra and Martin had been friends for almost thirty-five years; they’d been at the same table at the Copa on that infamous evening twenty-seven years before. But his presence made Berra uneasy. He knew he wasn’t there simply to sample the Pike Place Fish Market.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_208" title="208" />
        “We all know why Billy is here,” Don Baylor said. “We weren’t born yesterday.”
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          Losing affected Steinbrenner in odd ways. He threatened to start making the team fly commercial, “so they’ll know what it’s like to do a real job like real people.” He threatened to force the Yankees out of the five-star hotels to which they were accustomed and see how they enjoyed big-time ballplayer life on the road at Howard Johnson’s and Red Roof Inn. When he actually did announce he was shutting down the players’ lounge at Yankee Stadium, that drew a laugh from Graig Nettles, now three thousand miles away playing for his hometown San Diego Padres: “George will take away the showers next. This way the players will stink just as bad off the field as they do on.”
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">Just before the All-Star Game, with the Yankees seven games under .500 and twenty behind the Tigers, Steinbrenner decided to pay Berra and his coaches a visit.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “This is unacceptable,” Steinbrenner said. “I’ve given you guys everything you asked for and
        <i>this</i>
        is what I get?”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Berra’s coaches looked over at Berra, whose face began to redden.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        More Boss: “This is the team you wanted and look at how they’re playing! All of these guys, they’re all stinking it up.
        <i>It’s embarrassing!</i>
        ”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The coaches looked again at Berra. Now he was forcefully crushing the butt of a Lucky Strike, having recently resumed a habit he’d quit years before.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        More Boss: “And who’s to blame for that? This is
        <i>your</i>
        team, and it’s on
        <i>you guys</i>
        for the way they’re playing.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Now the coaches noticed that Berra was gripping the arms of his chair so tightly, it was like he was riding the Cyclone roller coaster over at Coney Island.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “This,” Steinbrenner said, “is
        <i>your</i>
        team, and . . .”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_209" title="209" />
        And now Steinbrenner, and his coaches, saw a side of Berra that even Berra himself might never have fully explored before.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “
        <i>I’ve heard enough of this shit!</i>
        ” Berra roared.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “You keep saying this is
        <i>my</i>
        team but that’s a fucking lie, and you know it’s a lie. This is
        <i>your</i>
        fucking team.
        <i>You</i>
        put it together.
        <i>You</i>
        make all the moves around here.
        <i>You</i>
        get all the fucking players that nobody else wants.
        <i>You</i>
        put this team together and wait for us to lose so you can blame everybody else because you’re a
        <i>chickenshit liar</i>
        !”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">He rose, flipped the pack of cigarettes off his desk; they hit Steinbrenner in the chest.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You want me to quit? I’m not quitting. You’ll have to fire me.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He stormed out of the room. Steinbrenner let him go and smiled.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I guess the pressure’s getting to him,” he said.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then the Yankees had that remarkable second half, and they’d done it because Steinbrenner actually heeded Berra’s pleas to call up some kids, let him have a crack at managing and developing them. Mattingly became a full-blown star. Mike Pagliarulo was handed third base and hit seven home runs in 201 at bats, playing elite defense. Meacham was called back up, and he shared shortstop with Andre Robertson. Both played well. Dennis Rasmussen won nine games. Steinbrenner was so impressed that on October 25 he welcomed Berra back for 1985.</p>
      <p class="indent">Berra said, “Now we just have to pick up where we left off.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        February 20, the Boss said Berra would get the whole year,
        <i>mark my words, read my lips, cross my heart and hope to die</i>
        .
      </p>
      <p class="indent">On April 28, Steinbrenner fired Yogi Berra.</p>
      <p class="indent">The record was 6–10, but Rickey Henderson had only begun to play, sidelined for the first two weeks of the season. There was no runaway team in the AL East; even at 6–10 the Yankees were only four and a half games behind the Tigers.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The players were ready to mutiny. Don Mattingly threw a garbage can against the clubhouse wall when he was given the news. Dale Berra, Yogi’s son and the Yankees’ backup third baseman, was weeping as he said, “It’s
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_210" title="210" />
        Mr. Steinbrenner’s prerogative.” The one outlier was Rickey Henderson, a Billy Martin favorite in Oakland who was about to be a Billy Martin favorite in New York.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Because welcoming the players when their plane touched down in Arlington, Texas, was their new manager. Billy Martin.</p>
      <p class="indent">Billy IV, as the back pages declared it.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It was a nice guy that got fired,” Martin said, showing (and not for the last time) a stunning lack of grace regarding someone who was allegedly his friend, “but if the players like him so much, why didn’t they play better for him?”</p>
      <p class="indent">If any of this bothered Berra, he refused to show it publicly. He was photographed wearing a twenty-four-karat smile as he walked out of Comiskey Park for his flight home to Montclair, New Jersey. In a few days he’d be back on the golf course and doing as his wife had begged him to do eighteen months earlier: “Just be Yogi.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Quietly his anger festered. It wasn’t the firing that bothered him.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Hell,” he said. “I’d already been fired twice.”</p>
      <p class="indent">But in 1964, he’d been told by the Yankees’ outgoing owners, Dan Topping and Del Webb, that he was being let go. In 1975, M. Donald Grant had shown him the courtesy of personally delivering the bad news that the Mets were parting ways with him.</p>
      <p class="indent">“But George,” Berra said, “didn’t have the stones to look me in the eye. He didn’t have the courage to tell me man to man. Or even to call.”</p>
      <p class="indent">And that, to Yogi Berra, was unforgivable.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I told Carm, ‘I ain’t ever going back there as long as that man owns the team.’ She said, ‘You’ll be back in five years, tops. I’m betting less.’”</p>
      <p class="indent">Berra laughed at that one, because he knew.</p>
      <p class="indent">His wife should’ve taken the over.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Billy Martin had</span>
        one last burst in him. By now he was settled down with Jill Guiver (whom he would marry in 1988), and she had convinced him to go “two, sometimes three” days per week without drinking.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_211" title="211" />
        “It took me a while,” he’d say, “to realize that it’s harder to manage when you have a hangover that makes you want to die.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">For most of Billy IV, he resembled the sharp, quick-thinking dynamo he’d been during Billy I, and at most of his other stops. He was energized by the fact that his favorite player, Rickey Henderson, was on his side again, and that Rickey was having the kind of year that made you wonder if he was playing a different game than everyone else. He hit .314. He stole eighty bases, a Yankees team record, and added twenty-four homers as a leadoff man. He scored an astonishing 146 runs in 143 games. A quintessential Yankees first inning looked like this: Rickey would lead off with a hit or a walk. He’d steal second. Willie Randolph would move him to third with a bunt or a groundout. Don Mattingly would drive him in with a hit or a sacrifice fly. Winfield would either double in Mattingly or hit a home run.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It felt like every game we started out up two to nothing,” said Lou Piniella, who’d retired in the middle of the ’84 season and in 1985 was serving an apprenticeship as Martin’s presumed heir and hitting coach.</p>
      <p class="indent">It took a little while for all of that to properly jell. For one thing, when Martin returned to Yankee Stadium for his first game back the mood was decidedly different: Fewer than twenty thousand people came, and there were scattered boos among the cheers (security had confiscated a few pro-Berra banners to boot); the fans had finally grown weary of this odd serial drama. After the Yankees lost to the Brewers in early June to drop eight games out, Martin resumed his subtle critique of the way his predecessor conducted business.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Yankees don’t talk about Yankees in the press,” Martin said one day, before saying this to the press about a Yankee: “I’m not knocking Yogi. But we need to correct a lot of things here that should have been done in spring training.” He then went on to blast the team’s lack of fundamentals.</p>
      <p class="indent">The next day Martin said, “I wasn’t criticizing Yogi.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Berra had a different take.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It looked like they had pretty good fundamentals to me,” Berra said about a stretch in May when they’d won twelve of fifteen.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_212" title="212" />
        It was around this point when Steinbrenner decided it was time to set his guns on Don Mattingly, with whom he’d gone to salary war in the spring (and won, renewing him at $325,000—less, Don bitterly noted, than his New York contemporary, Dwight Gooden, got from the Mets). Mattingly was the most vocal Yankee when Berra was dismissed. He didn’t mind playing for Martin, but when the manager called for an off-day workout—an order Mattingly and everyone else knew had come from the Boss, since Martin hated off-day workouts more than they did—Mattingly, the future captain, spoke up on behalf of his teammates: “The guys need a day off. They need to step back and rest a day.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner reacted predictably.</p>
      <p class="indent">“If he’s upset at working out it’s too damned bad,” the owner snapped. “He ought to talk to the cabdrivers or the steelworkers about working hard, talk to the farmers around his Indiana home who are losing their farms. I’m fed up with his attitude.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Mattingly was in the midst of one of the great seasons in Yankees history, a .324 average, thirty-five homers, forty-eight doubles, 145 RBIs, and he was at his best in the season’s home stretch. He won AL Player of the Month in August and September, a fifty-six-game period in which he drove in sixty-three runs and had twenty-two homers, hitting .357. By then, the Yankees were in the middle of an honest-to-goodness pennant race for the first time in five years.</p>
      <p class="indent">It should have been a giddy time in the Bronx.</p>
      <p class="indent">But all of this was muddied over. And George Steinbrenner seemed ever eager to add to the slop.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">IT STARTED WITH</span>
        a tinge of ugliness. Before the first game of a series against the Blue Jays, the crowd of 52,141 booed the playing of the Canadian national anthem. Steinbrenner, who would’ve attempted to declare war on Canada if Blue Jays fans ever booed “The Star-Spangled Banner” in Toronto, was understandably displeased, so before the next night’s game he summoned Bob Sheppard, the Yankee Stadium PA announcer, to issue an apology to the Canadian fans.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_213" title="213" />
        Sheppard “appealed to the fans’ good taste” and reminded them “of our two countries’ long history as allies.” It was, Steinbrenner agreed, beautiful. The fans cheered the announcement warmly.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Then booed the anthem again, across every word, from “O, Canada!” through “we stand on guard for thee.”</p>
      <p class="indent">By now, Steinbrenner could barely think straight. Luckily, before the third game on Saturday, the Yankees—though not Steinbrenner himself—hired a sweet-voiced professional named Mary O’Dowd to sing the anthems. The crowd didn’t boo this time. They didn’t have a chance. Poor Mary O’Dowd immediately forgot the words. Shaken, she retreated to the Yankees’ dugout, where someone handed her the lyrics. She returned to the microphone. Began again. This time she had the words perfect.</p>
      <p class="indent">Except she sang it to the tune of “The Star-Spangled Banner.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner, fully flummoxed, declared there and then that all future anthem singers would have to personally audition for him. The young Jays fought back. They beat Phil Niekro—trying for his three hundredth career win—on Friday, 3–2. They blasted the Yankees 7–4 on Saturday. And then, on Sunday, as the Jays surged to an 8–0 lead, Steinbrenner wandered into the press box.</p>
      <p class="indent">Cleared his throat.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then emptied his shotgun into the remains of his baseball team.</p>
      <p class="indent">“We’ve been out-ownered, out-front-officed, outmanaged and outplayed,” he steamed. “We need the big performances from Winfield, Griffey and Baylor—the guys who are making the big money. My big-money players aren’t playing like money players.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Then, the grand finale.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Where is Reggie Jackson? We need a Mr. October or a Mr. September.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Dave Winfield,” Steinbrenner said, “is Mr. May.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">George Steinbrenner didn’t</span>
        realize it in the moment, couldn’t have, but with those five words he’d launched a ground war that would nearly ruin him.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        He and Dave Winfield had never been particularly close, and it started
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_214" title="214" />
        almost right away when Steinbrenner’s accountants took a good look at the contract he’d bestowed. It was for ten years and $16.7 million, but cost-of-living escalator clauses meant the deal might ultimately approach $24 million, if not more. Steinbrenner always considered himself a master negotiator and now he’d been duped by Winfield and his agent, Al Frohman. He immediately insisted that the escalator clause be reduced. Winfield agreed to a few dollars in relief. But that was just the start.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Twice in Winfield’s first four years with the club he sued Steinbrenner for the Boss’s unwillingness to honor an important segment of the contact, an annual $30,000 donation from Steinbrenner to the David M. Winfield Foundation, which helped underprivileged kids in San Diego and, now, New York. Steinbrenner claimed he was never given access to the charity’s taxes and hadn’t been given, as promised, a seat on its board. Both lawsuits were settled out of court but the audacity of
        <i>Winfield</i>
        suing
        <i>him . . .</i>
        that didn’t sit well. At all.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Nor did Winfield’s 1-for-22 performance in the 1981 World Series. Nor did Winfield’s unwillingness to fully respond to Steinbrenner’s public harangues the way Jackson had. In 1982 Steinbrenner had declared, “Dave Winfield is not a superstar. He is a fine athlete, who performs all phases of the game well. But he does not have the ability to carry a team like Reggie Jackson could.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson would’ve fired back. So, as it turns out, would Mattingly.</p>
      <p class="indent">Winfield? He’d smile, shake his head, offer up something like, “I know how my teammates feel about me; that’s all that matters,” and be done with it.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Winfield laughed off “Mr. May” publicly. Eddie Lee Whitson, a Yankees pitcher days away from jumping into the crazy pool with a cannonball jump, found a copy of the May 1985
        <i>Playboy</i>
        , hung the centerfold in Winfield’s locker the next day. Winfield howled with delight. “Mr. May and Ms. May,” he said. “A match made in heaven!”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But Winfield was privately peeved, and he was done serving as Steinbrenner’s silent speed bag. Not long after, Steinbrenner came to the clubhouse to implore the Yankees to agree to voluntary drug-testing. Winfield interrupted him, told him it was a matter of collective bargaining.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_215" title="215" />
        “It’s my responsibility as player rep,” he said.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Not for long,” Steinbrenner shot back.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Is that some sort of threat?” Winfield replied. “Because you and I both know I’m not going anywhere next year but right here.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“We’ll see about that,” Steinbrenner said.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Yeah. We’ll see,” Winfield said.</p>
      <p class="indent">This was the state of the Yankees after the Blue Jays left them for dead, and it only worsened, the losing streak hitting eight.</p>
      <p class="indent">The eighth straight loss was a Friday night in Baltimore. Afterward, Billy Martin bellied up to the hotel bar at the Cross Keys Inn and struck up a conversation with a newlywed couple married that very afternoon. He bought them a bottle of champagne. He toasted them as they went upstairs. And was stunned when the groom—clearly wobbly—returned fifteen minutes later.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Billy,” he said, “we have a problem. My wife said you told her she has a potbelly.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “Well, she’s wrong,” Martin said, and pointed at another woman at the bar. “I said that
        <i>she</i>
        has a fat ass.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The resulting scuffle was quickly broken up, and by the time it became public there’d been a lot of witnesses willing to speak up that Martin had done nothing wrong other than be a little bit too much of a wiseass.</p>
      <p class="indent">The next night would be different.</p>
      <p class="indent">In the afternoon, the Yankees finally ended the losing streak, 5–2. Most scattered through the city for dinner before drawing back to the bar at the Cross Keys for a nightcap. It was a crowded room. At some point past midnight Martin became aware that one of his pitchers, Whitson, was involved in a heated argument with another patron named Albert Millus, a lawyer from Binghamton, New York. Whitson and Martin never hit it off, and lately Martin had taken to skipping Whitson in the rotation.</p>
      <p class="indent">It’s safe to say the last person Eddie Lee Whitson wanted to see as a peacemaker at this moment was Billy Martin.</p>
      <p class="indent">And yet there he was.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Eddie, you’re drunk, you don’t need this,” Martin said.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_216" title="216" />
        Whitson turned, saw Martin, and his eyes filled with rage.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Get the fuck away from me!” he screamed at his manager. And then he swung.</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin might’ve come with diplomatic intent. But now he was wrestling with Whitson, a man thirty years younger. Whiston kicked him a few times, and a couple of those blows landed on Martin’s right arm. They were separated.</p>
      <p class="indent">“What’s the matter with that guy?” Martin said. “Can’t he hold his liquor?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Whitson’s rage doubled. He broke free, kicked Martin again, this time in the groin.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Now,” Martin shouted at Whitson, “I’m going to have to kill you.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Before he could reach his pitcher two separate gaggles of people carried both men away, taking Whitson outside the lobby door, keeping Martin inside.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You’ve tried to bury me!” Whitson wailed. “You’re trying to ruin me!”</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin was finally talked onto the elevator by Lou Piniella, and he started to cool down. When the elevator reached the third floor they stepped out. At precisely the same time, the adjacent elevator door opened, too.</p>
      <p class="indent">And out stepped—no shit—Eddie Lee Whitson.</p>
      <p class="indent">For the fourth time, they charged each other although they were easily corralled.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You’re gutless!” Whiston yelled.</p>
      <p class="indent">“They told me you were in trouble,” Martin said. “I was only trying to help, Eddie.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The next morning, Martin reported for work at Memorial Stadium with a cast on his right arm, large sunglasses camouflaging the rest of the residue of a rough night.</p>
      <p class="indent">One of the TV cameramen yelled, “What happened to your arm, Mr. Martin?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“I hurt it bowling,” Martin said. Later, he joked to the writers: “I can’t fight feet.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner’s phone rang around 1 a.m. and he was told his manager and big free agent pitcher had just gone four rounds in front of hotel guests, players, coaches and at least six of eight newspaper beat writers.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_217" title="217" />
        “Wait . . . did you say
        <i>four</i>
        rounds?” Steinbrenner asked.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees’ season was on life support, and so was Billy IV. They made one last gallant stand, in game 160, Butch Wynegar tying a game in Toronto on a two-out ninth-inning homer, but they lost the next day when Doyle Alexander—a two-time Yankee whom Steinbrenner had twice angrily exiled—beat them 5–1. Three weeks later another ex-Yankee, Dick Howser, led a parade through downtown Kansas City when the Royals knocked off the Cardinals in a thrilling seven-game World Series.</p>
      <p class="indent">By then, Martin was relieved of his duties. Steinbrenner insisted all month that he was staying out of the decision, that it would all fall on Clyde King’s shoulders. That notion was funnier than Billy Martin’s attempt to be a pacifist. Steinbrenner said he was pleased by the man that “Clyde King” had picked as Martin’s replacement: Lou Piniella.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’ve played here,” Piniella said, “I’ve coached here. I’ve sat in on meetings. I’m well attuned to what’s transpired here. I’ve been here. I won’t be surprised.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        It was all so cute, so adorable, some of the writers almost wanted to pinch Piniella’s cheeks, and ask him: “You have
        <i>met</i>
        your boss, right?”
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
