<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 24</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch24">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_283" title="283" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch24">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch24">Chapter 24</a>
      </h1>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta1a">
          <span class="bold1">MOOGIE:</span>
          Hey, lemme ask you a question. In the legal sense, can fuckin’ Steinbrenner just move the Yankees? Does he have the fuckin’ right to just move them?
        </p>
        <p class="extiz1">
          <span class="bold1">MIKE MCD:</span>
          I don’t know. How should I know that?
        </p>
        <p class="extiz1">
          <span class="bold1">MOOGIE:</span>
          You didn’t learn that yet?
        </p>
        <p class="extiz1">
          <span class="bold1">MIKE MCD:</span>
          No, we get to Steinbrenner in the third year of law school.
        </p>
        <p class="exti">
          —
          <span class="smallcaps">
            <i>Rounders</i>
          </span>
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="noindent">
        <span class="dropcap">O</span>
        ne of the reasons William Paley found George Steinbrenner’s partnership group so enticing in late 1972, despite the fact that it wasn’t the high bid, was Steinbrenner’s insistence he’d keep the Yankees in New York. Paley didn’t want as part of his legacy to be responsible for the most famous franchise in American sports to move to Denver, or New Orleans, or—horror of horrors—New Jersey. Paley asked Steinbrenner if he was planning on making a go of it long-term in New York City, and he’d looked the young man square in the eye.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Yes, sir, I am,” Steinbrenner said.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Right from the start, Steinbrenner realized there were problems in the Bronx. The city had given Yankee Stadium a $167 million facelift in time for the 1976 season but certain things couldn’t be so easily bought,
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_284" title="284" />
        like foresight: The coming ballparks of the eighties and nineties would all be overrun with luxury suites, which turned them into virtual ATMs for owners seeking to compete with the Yankees for the best talent; Yankee Stadium could only squeeze twenty of them, even after the renovation. Of equal disquiet was the neighborhood around the ballpark, which in 1973 was concerning and within a few years ruinous.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">It wasn’t long after that “Bronx is burning” era when Steinbrenner began a twenty-five-year on-again, off-again affair with New Jersey, which already built a stadium for New York’s football Giants, was about to build an arena for the Long Island–based Nets basketball team, and was shortly to lure the Jets away from Shea Stadium. The Yankees were the desired plum all along, and beginning around 1984 the dalliance turned serious. A state-of-the-art stadium neighboring Giants Stadium was proposed, and the state was (in theory) willing to guarantee 2.2 million in annual attendance and hand over all parking and concessions if the Yankees agreed to flip sides of the Hudson River. At first this was simply a rumor wafting in the wind. But it never went away. By 1986, there was talk New Jersey might be willing to buy out the rest of the Yankees’ lease with the city, which expired in 2002 (although they’d need the taxpayers to OK that).</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Publicly, Steinbrenner played it coy: “We sure like New York,” he said in 1987. “We don’t want to move anywhere else.” Then he’d talk about how little parking there was around the ballpark. He’d speak of the need for a new train stop adjoining the property. He also, in essence, stopped paying his rent, which was supposed to be $1.5 million annually, from which he was allowed to deduct all maintenance costs—which, often as not, amounted to just around $1.5 million. It was Jim Dwyer, the Pulitzer Prize–winning cityside columnist for
        <i>Newsday</i>
        , who revealed that between 1986 and 1992 the Yankees paid about $136,000, total, in rent.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“The wealthiest sports franchise in the nation paid less in rent over the last decade than the working poor of any six-story apartment house on the Grand Concourse,” Dwyer wrote in 1993. “These are the same people who Steinbrenner blames for frightening away the customers from his ballpark. Yet they pay rent. He doesn’t.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_285" title="285" />
        By then, New Jersey’s aggressive efforts were cooled off by the voters, who overwhelmingly rejected a referendum to use tax dollars to build a stadium there. But Steinbrenner was still restless. When Rudy Giuliani became mayor of New York City, he proposed a couple of Manhattan locations—one on the West Side, one near Madison Square Garden—that quickly yielded hoots of protests from NIMBY residents and environmentalists. Governor Mario Cuomo talked about an arena not far from Yonkers Raceway. The day before the beam fell at Yankee Stadium, another faction of Jersey politicos announced they might try to relaunch the Garden State’s recruiting efforts.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Whenever the Jersey/Steinbrenner flirtations resumed every few years he invariably stoked fury among Yankees fans who looked at Yankee Stadium as Catholics saw St. Peter’s Basilica. Steinbrenner’s last attempt to negatively paint the stadium neighborhood was met harshly by a loud voice belonging to filmmaker Spike Lee.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “He’s a greedy asshole who is trying to hold up New York City, and it’s disgraceful,” Lee said. “He’s drawing on white hysteria; he’s afraid of the Blacks and Puerto Ricans in the Bronx and is basically saying, ‘If we don’t stop them from taking over, New York is going to be like Detroit.’ All he cares about is stuffing his pockets and catering to suburbanites. The Yankees in New Jersey?
        <i>The New York Yankees</i>
        in New Jersey? That’s unthinkable.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Then the beam fell.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees moved one home game to Shea Stadium, where they beat the Angels, 6–3. They swapped a series with the Tigers so workmen could repair the area while they played in Detroit, and engineers could do a comprehensive study that declared the stadium sound and fit for public consumption. When the stadium opened back up for business on April 24, fans walking to their seats in Section 22 found George Steinbrenner there, seated for the night not far from where the beam destroyed Seat 7 in Row 2. He bought hot dogs for everyone and declared: “I’m not scared. Are any of you?”</p>
      <p class="indent">He was a man of the people. For a day, anyway.</p>
      <p class="noindentt">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_286" title="286" />
        <span class="bold">His ball club</span>
        certainly helped scrub whatever hard feelings the fans might’ve had about the owner. They seized first place on the last day of April. By the end of June the record was 56–20, and there started to be real talk that these Yankees might break the franchise record of 110 wins set by the fabled ’27 Yankees, dubbed Murderers’ Row, and also the 1906 Cubs, who’d won 116 games in a 154-game season. That speculation turned out to be half right. They won 114 and never did stand on the brakes, winning seven in a row to close out the season long after they’d cliched. Steinbrenner’s old sparring partner David Wells, enjoying his finest season, even pitched a perfect game against the Minnesota Twins on May 17.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        The ’98 team discovered the secret for avoiding the “George-ing” that waylaid so many other teams through the years: They won. A lot. Almost every day. He had nothing to say about Torre’s managing, or about the team Brian Cashman had assembled (with the Boss’s help and also with his approval for a record $72 million payroll). The Boss did talk to his friends at Page Six and planted a story that perhaps Derek Jeter’s burgeoning romance with pop star Mariah Carey might be causing him a few off-field distractions; whether it was Jeter being a loyal employee (or just a famous single guy with an eye toward making his way through as much of the
        <i>Maxim</i>
        magazine Hot 100 as possible), that flame flickered out soon enough. Jeter finished third in the MVP vote.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner also issued a challenge for Yankees fans in 1998: pack the stadium three million strong for the first time, he’d never talk about New Jersey again. They would set an all-time Yankees attendance record but fall 44,807 shy of Steinbrenner’s task. Still, there was already a sense the Boss was softening, that his wandering eyes were finally content, at least for the time being. He had a friend in Mayor Giuliani, and there was momentum building to replace both Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium. In 1999, the Yankees really would top three million for the first time, and by 2005 that would reach four million, a feat repeated four years in a row. New Yorkers confirmed an age-old truth: If you win—a lot—they will come. And the
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_287" title="287" />
        Yankees won. A lot. Their run to the 1998 championship consisted of only one day of stress—the Indians took a 2–1 lead in the best-of-seven ALCS—but the Yankees proceeded to win seven straight games, including a sweep of the Padres in the World Series. When the carnage was complete, the Boss wept as he accepted the Commissioner’s Trophy from Bud Selig.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“They’ve got to rank among the greatest ever—not just greatest Yankees teams, but greatest ever teams,” he said. “The old Yankees, each year they would get bigger in people’s minds. This team will be the same way. How can you do any better than they have?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Just eight years earlier, that crowd at Yankee Stadium stood and roared when it was announced Steinbrenner had been tossed out of baseball a second time. Now, there were a few thousand Yankees fans who’d made the pilgrimage to Qualcomm Stadium to watch the Yankees tie a bow on a 125-win season, and when they spotted Steinbrenner on the field they made him cry all over again.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“Thank you, Boss!</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“Thank you, BOSS!!</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“THANK YOU, BOSS!!!”</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Even in this moment of unfiltered triumph, a new seed of contention had been planted. Prior to Game 1, Padres CEO Larry Lucchino had taken a tour of Yankee Stadium’s Monument Park. He and Steinbrenner had already gone a few rounds on a couple of occasions, Lucchino always making sure to remind the world the Padres and Yankees existed in entirely different economic spheres. Each time, that irked Steinbrenner. Now, Lucchino thought it a good time to quote Dean Acheson, Harry Truman’s secretary of state, after saying, “Tell George we still respect the Yankees.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“There are no permanent friends,” he said. “There are no permanent enemies. There are only shifting alliances.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Lucchino annoyed Steinbrenner to no end, and he couldn’t just let it go unanswered.</p>
      <p class="indent">When the Boss saw the sorry condition of the Padres’ ballpark he sneered, “Tell Lucchino his stadium looks like a cow pasture.”</p>
      <p class="indent">It would take a few years. But Lucchino would be heard from again.</p>
      <p class="noindentt">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_288" title="288" />
        <span class="bold">Lucchino was only</span>
        lending voice to what a lot of people inside baseball believed: The Yankees were enjoying the perks of playing on an uneven playing field. There was their near-half-a-billion-dollar TV deal. In 1997 Steinbrenner signed an agreement with Adidas, and that landed him not only a cool $100 million contract but also in court with his fellow owners, who believed all such revenue was supposed to be divided evenly by the clubs. Steinbrenner sued them back. It cost him a seat on the sport’s executive council, and it further alienated him from the others, who kept watching Steinbrenner’s payrolls inch closer and closer toward $100 million annually.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">This was underlined by the rosters he kept green-lighting for Cashman. In the spring of 1999, Steinbrenner authorized a trade for Roger Clemens, the two-time reigning Cy Young Award winner. The swap cost the Yankees David Wells, a blow to the fanbase and to most of the saloon owners all across Manhattan. Baseball fans in Pittsburgh and Kansas City howled at the unfairness of the winningest team in history adding the game’s best pitcher; if Steinbrenner heard them he didn’t let on.</p>
      <p class="indent">Meanwhile, Cashman was exploring nontraditional sources of talent. Orlando Hernandez was an instant sensation after emigrating from Cuba, going 12–4 in 1998 and finishing fourth in the Rookie of the Year balloting (at age thirty-two). A year earlier, the Yankees conducted a full-court press securing Hideki Irabu, a twenty-eight-year-old fireballer who’d been dubbed the “Nolan Ryan of Japan.” The Padres were awarded Irabu’s rights, and it was while negotiating with them that Steinbrenner remembered just how profoundly he disliked Larry Lucchino, who ultimately demanded a host of young prospects before sending Irabu east.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Irabu was good for business initially, but he never did adjust to American baseball. He would go 34–35 in a six-year career (29–20 with the Yankees) and pitch to a 5.15 ERA. He also rarely kept himself in shape and wasn’t keen on fundamentals. The height—and depth—of Irabu-mania arrived on April Fool’s Day 1999. Pitching in the top of the ninth of an exhibition
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_289" title="289" />
        game against Cleveland, he failed to cover first on a grounder to first baseman Clay Bellinger. It had been a nightmarish spring for Irabu, who that morning weighed in at 253 pounds and then insisted just a day earlier he’d tipped the scales at 242.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “My weight goes up and down,” he said through a translator, and the writers who dutifully jotted that in their notebooks tried not to burst out laughing because
        <i>that</i>
        would’ve needed no interpretation.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner had seen enough.</p>
      <p class="indent">“He looks like a fat pussie toad out there,” Steinbrenner said.</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          And thus began one of the great days in the history of American journalism: How, exactly, were you supposed to spell the word between the “fat” and the “toad” in that sentence (which the Boss had intended as the thick, green ooze that sometimes emanates from an infection)? The
          <i>Daily News</i>
          just eliminated it.
          <i>Newsday</i>
          opted for ellipses where the word in question once stood. The
          <i>Post</i>
          ? The
          <i>Post</i>
          went with “pus-ie [rhymes with ‘fussy’].” The
          <i>Times</i>
          opted for “pus-sy,” but only after baseball columnist Jack Curry fought his desk about it. Me, I was at the Newark
          <i>Star-Ledger</i>
          then, and we were a few months into a fairly tight relationship with the producers of
          <i>The Sopranos</i>
          . The
          <i>Ledger</i>
          was the paper Tony retrieved at the end of his driveway in many episodes. And we had already demolished one door of decorum by regularly printing the name of one of Tony’s closest associates on the show: Salvatore Bonpensiero—a.k.a. “Big Pussy.”
        </p>
        <p class="exti3">“Use something other than that spelling,” we were told. I consulted with Tim Brown, our Yankees beat writer, and after some minutes of debate concluded we should go with “fat pussie toad.”</p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">
        Irabu had been a rare miss. There were few others. No team since the Oakland A’s of 1972, 1973 and 1974 had won three straight championships before the 1998, 1999 and 2000 Yankees came along. No team had ever come close to winning four in five years since the Yankees of 1949,
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_290" title="290" />
        1950, 1951, 1952 and 1953 had won five in a row. Recall that two days after he’d completed his first suspension from baseball, on March 3, 1976, Steinbrenner said this:
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <i>We’re going to restore the Yankees to what they used to be, the greatest name in sports. I don’t mean we’re going to win five World Series in a row. Nobody will ever dominate that way again. The talent is spread out too evenly . . . but we’re going to be up here all the time, right in there.</i>
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">Remarkably, it turned out he’d underestimated his own wildest dreams and came as close as possible to four in a row and five out of six, the Yankees only losing the 2001 title because of an epic ninth-inning comeback by the Arizona Diamondbacks in Game 7 of the World Series.</p>
      <p class="indent">He’d built one champion, fallen as far as a man can tumble, then built up another, and he’d done it this time by mostly staying off the back page, allowing Joe Torre to do his job and Brian Cashman to do his, content with signing checks and occasionally ripping an umpire. Somehow, he’d gone from belittled pariah to beloved patriarch.</p>
      <p class="indent">He was alone at the top of the heap, as his idol, Frank Sinatra, sang.</p>
      <p class="indent">Now it was time to right an old wrong.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">In the summer</span>
        of 1998 George Steinbrenner began to let go a series of old antipathies. One he’d inherited. Jim Bouton was a terrific Yankees pitcher in the early sixties before arm woes shortened his career; toward the end, he authored
        <i>Ball Four</i>
        , a book cowritten with
        <i>Post</i>
        writer Leonard Shecter, in which he gleefully shared a buffet of clubhouse secrets.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Specifically, Mickey Mantle—whom Bouton outed as a drinker and a carouser—disliked the book, and its authors. His unhappiness made Bouton persona non grata in the Bronx when Old-Timers’ Day invites were handed out, and when Steinbrenner bought the team, he dutifully honored what he assumed were Mantle’s wishes.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_291" title="291" />
        By June 1998, Mantle had passed three years before and Bouton was grieving the loss of his daughter, Laurie, to a car accident the previous August. Bouton, who’d become a New York sportscaster in the wake of his book’s success, had always been detached and irreverent about his Old-Timers’ Day ban. Things were different now. He was almost sixty. Moved by a letter from Bouton’s son Michael that appeared in
        <i>The New York Times</i>
        on Father’s Day, Steinbrenner invited Bouton personally.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Bouton cried during the call—after he realized it wasn’t a friend pranking him. And when he was introduced July 25, he received one of the loudest ovations of anyone.</p>
      <p class="indent">Yogi Berra was a whole different category. Berra remained stubborn and steadfast in his refusal to darken the stadium’s door as long as Steinbrenner was sitting in the owner’s office. His resolve had actually stiffened, even as Steinbrenner’s public image seemed to soften. On June 26, 1998, the Mets asked Berra to throw out the ceremonial first pitch before a Subway Series game at Shea Stadium. Berra happily accepted and enjoyed a loud ovation from Mets fans when he threw a strike to Mike Piazza. Of all the things Berra had chosen to miss over the years—his own plaque dedication, a day devoted to his old roommate Bobby Brown, open invites to throw out the first pitch to any of the sixteen home playoff games the Yankees had played between 1996 and ’98, all those Old-Timers’ Days—the sight of him getting a standing O in Queens devastated Steinbrenner the most.</p>
      <p class="indent">“He has no interest in tweaking George,” Dale Berra insisted of his dad.</p>
      <p class="indent">Two important things happened in the months to come. Before Game 2 of the ’98 ALCS, a most unexpected guest walked out onto the field at Yankee Stadium. Dave Winfield waved his arms, smiled at the crowd, threw the first pitch to Jorge Posada’s glove and later said, “To come back and be recognized as a significant Yankee is much appreciated.”</p>
      <p class="indent">If Dave Winfield—whom Steinbrenner had spent the better part of a decade trying to destroy—could make peace, wasn’t détente possible with Berra?</p>
      <p class="indent">
        It was a visit to the hospital room of Joe DiMaggio that finally pushed
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_292" title="292" />
        the Boss to action. The eighty-four-year-old DiMaggio was suffering from pneumonia, which would later reveal lung cancer and would kill him within a few months. When he saw Steinbrenner, DiMaggio immediately made a plea.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“This thing with Yogi, it shouldn’t be a personal thing,” DiMaggio said. “It should be first for the fans, then for the game, then for the Yankees. That should be more important than two men having a feud.”</p>
      <p class="indent">In early December, Mark Chernoff, the program director for WFAN radio, dreamed up a remote show for the next month, to take place at the Yogi Berra Museum &amp; Learning Center in Montclair, New Jersey. Not long after securing the date, he reached out to Suzyn Waldman, who’d had a long association with Steinbrenner, knew him well and would host the event.</p>
      <p class="indent">She called Steinbrenner. “George, I want to talk to you about Yogi.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner was alarmed, fearful something had happened to him. When he was assured Berra was fine, he kept thinking about what DiMaggio had told him.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        That’s when Waldman first thought,
        <i>This might work</i>
        .
      </p>
      <p class="indent">George was the easy part.</p>
      <p class="indent">It was Berra who was holding the grudge. Waldman called Dale Berra, told him Steinbrenner would fly up from Tampa, take a car to the museum late in the afternoon of January 7. Dale, who like most of Berra’s family members respected his father’s pride but also yearned for him to return to Yankee Stadium so he could enjoy a few more moments in the sun, was nevertheless skeptical.</p>
      <p class="indent">“How do you know he’s going to apologize?” Dale asked.</p>
      <p class="indent">“The man isn’t flying two thousand miles in the dead of winter to come in and say ‘Fuck you,’” Waldman reasoned.</p>
      <p class="indent">On the day in question, Berra and his family waited in the lobby. Traffic kept Steinbrenner from arriving at the appointed hour of 5 p.m. sharp.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You’re late,” Berra said when Steinbrenner finally showed.</p>
      <p class="indent">They retreated to a private room, and Berra heard the words he’d waited fourteen years to hear. Steinbrenner apologized, admitted he’d handled the firing sixteen games into the 1985 season terribly.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_293" title="293" />
        Berra’s signature expression in a lifetime that produced more quotes than
        <i>Bartlett’s</i>
        had always been “It ain’t over till it’s over,” which was how he’d described his ’73 Mets when they were still in last place on August 31. Now, as Waldman asked him about the most famous vendetta in American sports, he borrowed from it.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“It’s over,” he said.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
