<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch2">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_19" title="19" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch2">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch2">Chapter 2</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>There is nothing quite so limited as being a limited partner of George Steinbrenner’s.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">
        —JOHN M
        <small>c</small>
        MULLEN
      </p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">T</span>
        hey managed to spruce the old gray lady up as nicely as she could be spruced, after so many years and so many moments, so much history and so much glory, much of it now a faded whisper. Yankee Stadium was still mostly bedecked in its original look as the newspapermen began to arrive late in the morning of Wednesday, January 3, 1973, after being rousted early by Bob Fishel, the Yankees’ PR chief, and his assistant, Marty Appel. The world-famous frieze that ringed the upper of three decks was still there, though the weather had treated the copper poorly, turning it a sickly shade of green in the weeks before the workmen would slather a final coat of white paint upon it. The outfield dimensions were as they’d been for decades: 296 feet down the right field line, 457 to left-center, “Death Valley,” long enough and far enough that Yankees shortstop-turned-broadcaster Phil Rizzuto had once joked “anyone could clear that fence . . . as long as you played it as a par three.” But it was an old stadium badly in need of renovation, something that was scheduled to happen as soon as the coming 1973 season was complete. In the newspapers in recent years, the adjectives had been far less kind: “crumbling” and “rat-infested” and “outdated,” even “obsolete.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_20" title="20" />
        New Jersey had already come courting, pitching woo at CBS about a sparkling new baseball cathedral and wide-open concourses and enough parking to accommodate an entire fleet of automobiles. It was such sweet talk that had already wooed the New York Giants football team west, across the George Washington Bridge. And while the Yankees had agreed to stay in the Bronx pending a city-financed renovation to the stadium . . . well, no shovels had yet been dug into the earth. If the Yankees had decided to change their mind, there really wasn’t much New York could do to stop them.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The Stadium Club was stuffed with writers and TV folks when Michael Burke stepped to the podium just after noon, as the media finished lunch. Burke, CBS’s leading conduit to the Yankees since 1966, was the man who figured to be the first one out the door if CBS finally decided it had enough of its star-crossed nine-year ownership of the club. To many of the sportswriters who’d lost scent of this story in recent weeks, it was something of a surprise to see Burke step to the microphone looking far more dapper—three-piece blue suit, dark tie—than the casual wear he usually wore around the ballpark. (Although he did still favor a mop of gray hair, maybe a quarter inch shy of “unruly,” a personal grooming preference that would soon become a bigger deal than he ever could have imagined.)</p>
      <p class="indent">He got to the point quickly.</p>
      <p class="indent">“CBS,” Burke intoned, “has agreed to sell the New York Yankees.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Reporters scribbled furiously into their notebooks. Cameras clicked in rapid-fire. There had been rumors for weeks that CBS was going to at last cut bait with the world’s most famous sports franchise, a shaky marriage from the start that grew only more dysfunctional with each passing year. Most keen baseball observers figured the sale would be announced by the end of the season, as surely CBS would want to haggle as high a price as it could. And one of the presumed favorites to close the deal was a group financed by Lehman Brothers, an investment bank with roots in Alabama that had, since 1858, been a foundational financial stronghold in Manhattan. The face of that group would be an old New York Giants catcher named Herman Franks, who was tabbed to run the team once the
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_21" title="21" />
        deal was done. And in a masterful marketing stroke that would surely have secured top billing in the city’s tabloids for months to come, Franks had already called his favorite player from his time managing the San Francisco Giants from 1965 to 1968 to see if he’d be willing to manage the Yankees and become the first African American to hold a manager’s job in MLB history.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Yes, sir,” Willie Mays said, “I would.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Even better: By late December, Lehman’s offer of between $13.5 and $14 million was the clear leader in the clubhouse and would allow CBS to escape baseball and salvage a small profit for all its years of struggle with the Yankees. Veteran sportswriters figured they might see Franks, a familiar old face to most of them, when they walked into the Stadium Club that Wednesday morning.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Instead, they were greeted by a different familiar face—Burke—who, while an affable gentleman and always good with a quote and a story to fill their notebooks, had nevertheless overseen much of the Yankees’ downfall in the past decade. But there was also a most unfamiliar face, lined up to Burke’s left, the two men standing beneath an enormous blue banner, trimmed in red, with
        <span class="smallcaps">YANKEES</span>
        stitched across the front in white. Burke’s announcement of CBS’s sale may have been anticipated, but it was still stunning.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">So that was bombshell number one for that January 3, 1973.</p>
      <p class="indent">“CBS has agreed to sell the Yankees to a group of individuals headed by George Steinbrenner,” Burke said, before adding that he himself was one of those individuals. Steinbrenner, the man who’d put the group together, and Burke were the only two of the twelve on hand at the press conference. This had been his show, his and Burke’s, a marriage arranged through that mutual friend whose identity was still hidden. Steinbrenner noted to himself that Burke left out the middle initial and the roman numeral at the end when he introduced him—something that would never happen again, whenever he could help it.</p>
      <p class="indent">There was bombshell number two.</p>
      <p class="indent">Number three followed quickly.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_22" title="22" />
        “The sale price,” Burke said, “is for ten million dollars.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">This sent shock waves throughout the room. Ten million dollars? Just three years earlier the city of Milwaukee—less than one-seventh the size of New York—had rescued the Seattle Pilots out of bankruptcy and paid $14 million for the privilege. It was believed that this had established a floor for what all sales would start at going forward. Only one baseball team since 1901 had ever sold at a loss and that had been in 1953, when Anheuser-Busch saw it as a civic obligation to buy the St. Louis Cardinals, paying slightly less than the $4 million Fred Saigh had shelled out to buy the team five years earlier, before Saigh had encountered huge financial setbacks and nearly moved the team because of it.</p>
      <p class="indent">Since 1973 no baseball team has been sold at a loss (or even come remotely close).</p>
      <p class="indent">Yet now Burke was explaining that because of CBS’s corporate structure and the resulting tax loopholes it had enjoyed, as well as the depreciation of players as they aged, this wasn’t a sunk cost at all.</p>
      <p class="indent">“CBS substantially recouped its investment,” he insisted, which was the one message CBS chairman William Paley had demanded Burke get across. CBS was no hayseed, and it hadn’t agreed to the twelve-man Yankees partnership offer of $833,833.33 apiece out of any kind of charity (although it would soon be revealed the partners hadn’t all paid that amount. Some paid more. One fellow paid only $168,000 of his own money. He was the one who put the group together. And he was the one standing at the podium).</p>
      <p class="indent">Paley was adamant: Spin this to show that we made money on this deal, that we weren’t taken to the cleaners by these out-of-towners from Ohio. Whatever else happened, that had to be high in every story that appeared that afternoon and the next morning.</p>
      <p class="indent">Burke understood and agreed. He relayed that message to his new partner.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then he introduced Steinbrenner.</p>
      <p class="indent">And Steinbrenner immediately said: “This is the best buy in sports today. I think it’s a bargain.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        With those thirteen words, Steinbrenner ended the near twenty-year
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_23" title="23" />
        friendship between Michael Burke and William Paley. The two men never spoke again.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner—taking to the spotlight easily, and naturally—was just getting started.</p>
      <p class="indent">“The Yankees,” he said, “are an important thing to New York, but equally important as they are to New York, they’re that important to baseball.”</p>
      <p class="indent">And with that, Steinbrenner allowed Burke to reveal bombshell number four: The Yankees would, indeed, be staying in New York; they would no longer be romanced by the Jersey Meadowlands (for another few years, anyway). Burke passed along a message from Mayor John V. Lindsay: “‘As landlord of the New York Yankees, the city welcomes today’s news.’” And soon enough, it would be revealed that while the Lehman Brothers bid had indeed outpaced the Steinbrenner/Burke group by at least three and a half million dollars, the Lehman offer had come with a caveat: They were absolutely committed to flee the Bronx for North Jersey. That, it turns out, had been the deal-breaker for CBS. For all the hassles the Yankees had beset CBS with, one thing Paley did not want to leave behind as part of his legacy was being forever known as the man who let the Yankees leave New York.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        So it was Steinbrenner “and eleven partners to be named later,” as the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        quipped.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The New York press was struck by Steinbrenner’s presence, his self-assuredness and also by his youth.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “Finally!” crowed Phil Pepe in the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        . “A young owner instead of the usual roster of old-fogeys.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “A Yankee owner out of the Woodstock generation,” enthused Vic Ziegel in the
        <i>Post</i>
        , undoubtedly the last time anyone would ever again intimate, even as a matter of satire, that George M. Steinbrenner III was a hippie.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        The day’s fifth and final surprise came later, after the official part of the program broke up and Steinbrenner was surrounded by a thick ring of writers—delighting in the attention more and more. As Larry Merchant
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_24" title="24" />
        would later write in the
        <i>Post</i>
        : “Nobody puts your name in the paper after you build a really good ship.” But after holding court for fifteen minutes, Steinbrenner left his new friends in the press with one assurance.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“We plan absentee ownership as far as running the Yankees is concerned,” he said. “Nobody is going to pretend to be something we aren’t. I’ll stick to building ships.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">“Of course I</span>
        never should have said those words,” George Steinbrenner would concede in January 2003, as he’d said for most of the thirty years since they were first uttered. “Because I didn’t believe it. Oh, maybe in the glare of the moment it reflected what I was thinking—I really was new to baseball; I really did understand that I had some things to learn about this new world.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">He laughed.</p>
      <p class="indent">“But even from day one I knew I wasn’t going to be an absentee owner. Anyone who’d ever spend five minutes around me at work knew that right away.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Some have called Steinbrenner’s promise of absentee ownership the greatest lie in sports history. It was certainly—given the thirty-seven years to follow—among the most
        <i>ironic</i>
        things ever said. Steinbrenner was the principal owner of the Yankees for exactly 13,705 days; few of those days passed without someone, somewhere, for some reason, hearkening back to those four words.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“We plan absentee ownership.”</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">In truth, Steinbrenner arrived precisely at the outset of the era of sports-owner-as-celebrity. From the beginning of Major League Baseball the exclusive club of men who owned the teams—sixteen of them from 1901 to 1960, twenty from 1962 to ’69, twenty-four on the day Steinbrenner was introduced—enjoyed the primacy and the privacy of their select strata. Dick Young, who for thirty years was the most powerful sportswriter in America, once dubbed them “Lords of the Game,” and later “Lords” for short, and it wasn’t designed as a compliment. But none of the Lords minded all that much.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_25" title="25" />
        For years, they were padlocked inside a sure thing and knew it. Some teams did better than others, sure. Even in the thirties and forties baseball’s economics favored big-market cities like New York and Chicago over the smaller burgs like St. Louis and Cincinnati. In the 1950s, the Kansas City Athletics became in essence an unofficial feeder system for the Yankees, and players who’d labored in obscurity in western Missouri found stardom—and championships—just north of Broadway. But even the poor teams had it fine; thanks to the “reserve clause” that bound players in perpetuity to the clubs that originally signed them, the athletes had zero leverage. They could be traded or released on a whim. The owners set the rules and thrived by them.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The game that George Steinbrenner joined in 1973 still resembled what it had looked like in 1933 but barely, holding on by fingernails. Marvin Miller had arrived to mobilize the players’ union in 1967, and in 1972 they struck over pension benefits and salary arbitration—and, to the surprise of almost everybody, the players got most of what they demanded. Emboldened, the next target was the reserve clause, and the possibility of free agency that would follow. Baseball was barreling toward a much colder existence, one that would ultimately consist of billionaires on one side and millionaires on the other.</p>
      <p class="indent">And Steinbrenner would be ready for that transition.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        In the moment he was quick to say that, while his first baseball loyalties as a child were with his hometown Cleveland Indians, “I always admired the Yankees because how couldn’t you admire them? They were the
        <i>Yankees</i>
        .” A few weeks earlier, the Yankees had pulled off a high-profile deal, trading for Cleveland’s best player, third baseman Graig Nettles, and Steinbrenner admitted: “I hated that trade then. Now, I’m a big fan.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “You know,” he said as the press scrum began to thin, “there’s a lot of reaching back these days for things that were meaningful. Look at the success of
        <i>No, No, Nanette</i>
        on Broadway. . . .”
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          Decades later, Steinbrenner would’ve taken great glee in gratuitously mentioning
          <i>No, No, Nanette</i>
          at any point in
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_26" title="26" />
          any conversation because the story goes that back in 1919 Red Sox owner Harry Frazee needed cash to bankroll that show, and that’s the reason he sold Babe Ruth to the Yankees for $100,000. This story doesn’t take into account that the play didn’t actually open until 1924 . . . but, no matter. It became a foundational element to the “Curse of the Bambino” myth that grew around the Sox, and Steinbrenner delighted in deepening the mythology. But that was later. In January 1973
          <i>No, No, Nanette</i>
          had just ended an electric 861-performance revival on Broadway, which was of great interest to Steinbrenner, himself a nascent theater impresario.
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">“That’s part of it. And I think the Yankees are, too. That’s why I’m part of it. But at the same time, I’m for new ideas in baseball.”</p>
      <p class="indent">It wouldn’t take long for him to share those ideas. About as long as it took for him to return to his hotel and dial the Cleveland number of the mutual friend he’d shared with Michael Burke who started all of this in the first place.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I think it went well today,” Steinbrenner said.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I thought so, too,” Gabe Paul agreed.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
