<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch1">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_10" title="10" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch1">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch1">Chapter 1</a>
      </h1>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="epi_pb">
          <i>The perfect afternoon at Yankee Stadium? It’s when the Yankees score eight runs in the first inning and then slowly pull away.</i>
        </p>
        <p class="epi_at">—COLONEL JACOB RUPPERT JR.</p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="noindent">
        <span class="dropcap">T</span>
        he great man was swollen a few extra pounds from when he’d been the most fearsome batsman in all of baseball and one of the most famous citizens of the planet, but he was still unmistakably recognized by the servants and support staff who moved quietly about the stately home at 1120 Fifth Avenue. This was one of the most stylish addresses on the island of Manhattan, tucked just north of Ninety-Second Street, an easy stone’s throw from the Central Park Reservoir. George Herman Ruth hadn’t swatted a baseball in almost four years, when he’d hit the last of his 714 home runs, a massive blast that famously was the first baseball ever to clear the roof at Pittsburgh’s mammoth Forbes Field. Just as infamously, he’d hit that ball in the garish vestments of the Boston Braves, to whom he had been exiled by the man who owned this opulent mansion at 1120 Fifth. Many of Ruth’s days since February 26, 1935, had been spent in anger and resentment, most of it aimed at the man who, almost four years later, now lay peacefully upstairs, wandering in and out of consciousness.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">It was the morning of January 13, 1939.</p>
      <p class="indent">Babe Ruth had come to say goodbye to Colonel Jacob Ruppert Jr.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_11" title="11" />
        For twenty-three years Ruppert had been the imperious owner of the New York Yankees, the single-most-powerful and influential man in all of American sport, the most ambitious, successful, opinionated and controversial figure who’d ever aspired to own a franchise. He was, in many ways, the spirit of Charles Foster Kane sprung to life, his fortune baseball diamonds rather than newspapers.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Ruppert was born into one of New York’s most prosperous families, and he’d inherited the whole of the Ruppert Brewing Company—best known for its two hugely popular signature products, Knickerbocker Beer and Ruppert’s Extra Pale Ale—which at its peak produced over a million barrels a year. He’d already been elected a four-term congressman from both New York’s Fifteenth and Sixteenth Districts, running as a Tammany Hall Democrat, and earned his honorary military title serving as an aide-de-camp for Governor David B. Hill. A lifelong bachelor, with more money than he could ever spend, Ruppert was nevertheless filled with a specific ennui that would latch itself to many rich, ambitious men many decades later who dealt with the same nagging realities Ruppert did: “I’ve got all the money in the world. But nobody knows who I am . . .”</p>
      <p class="indent">A century later, it became a common rite for such men to turn their attention to professional sports and shell out small fortunes for the Dallas Cowboys, for the Dallas Mavericks, for the Cleveland Cavaliers, for the New York Mets. But in 1915 there were only sixteen such opportunities. There was no professional basketball, no professional football. The National Hockey League was still a mom-and-pop operation, mostly focused on Canada. If you were a sportsman, your options were this: You could sponsor prizefighters, but even in those early years of the twentieth century that sport was overwhelmed by a strong underworld element. You could invest in thoroughbred racehorses, but even then much of the glory went to the horses themselves, to the jockeys who rode them and to the touts who could guide you toward bringing home a few more dollars than you’d brought with you to the track.</p>
      <p class="indent">Or you could wait for one of those sixteen spots in Major League Baseball to open.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_12" title="12" />
        In 1915 one of them did.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And it was just about the least attractive one anyone could imagine.</p>
      <p class="indent">Back in 1903 Ban Johnson, the founder of the American League, recognized that the only way his burgeoning baseball loop could survive was to place an anchor in New York City. The AL had gone its first two years without; it wouldn’t survive many more. Johnson identified two of Tammany Hall’s most faithful sons, New Yorkers to the bone who’d scored fortunes working both within and without the framework of established local statutes. One was Frank Farrell, a poolroom king who controlled a gambling syndicate valued at $3 million. The other was William “Big Bill” Devery, the last of the superintendents who’d (very) loosely overseen the New York Police Department before the advent of a commissioner’s office; somehow, Devery had managed to cobble together enough nickels and quarters on his constable’s salary to hold a significant chunk of the New York real estate market. Farrell and Devery had made their respective fortunes, legal and otherwise, by relying on sure things; Johnson promised them one. And with a stroke of a fountain pen and a payment of $18,000 to the league office on January 9, 1903, the Baltimore Orioles vanished and the New York Highlanders were born.</p>
      <p class="indent">Except by 1915 the Highlanders had become a genuine baseball calamity. For one thing, they were awful—103 losses in 1908, 102 in 1912, seven losing records in all, eight finishes near the bottom of the league. For another, they were homeless: The rickety woodpile called Hilltop Park—sitting on the site that is now the home of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital—had been inadequate on the day it was hastily opened in 1903 and within a decade became uninhabitable. The Highlanders had offered up Hilltop to the rival Giants when the National League team’s Polo Grounds burned to the ground in 1911, and two years later the Giants returned the favor. It was an easy offer. The Highlanders drew fewer than 250,000 for their last full season at Hilltop. They were irrelevant in New York City, practically invisible, and it was impossible to see how that would ever change.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        For it was the Giants who ruled the city, who ruled the sport, who
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_13" title="13" />
        saw their nickname not so much as a catchy moniker but as a central part of the team’s mission statement. The new Polo Grounds was the grandest baseball basilica yet built. The team was an annual contender, led by the most famous manager of all, John J. McGraw, a fiery pepper pot of a man who suffered no fools and laughed at the notion that New York City would ever be anything but a Giants town. Brooklyn could have its Dodgers on the other side of the river. Those who couldn’t get a ticket to Giants games were welcome to watch the Highlanders—who by 1913 had changed their nickname to the more headline-friendly “Yankees”—kick the ball around daffily. Giants fans were fierce and they were legion, and they included every class and caste and creed and color in the city’s complex tapestry. Theater stars sought seats behind the dugout, the better to be seen. Wall Street titans gobbled up box seats, the better to conduct business.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Devery and Farrell wanted out of their sure thing.</p>
      <p class="indent">As it happened, Jacob Ruppert and a civil engineer–turned-businessman with the delightfully lyrical name of Tillinghast L’Hommedieu Huston wanted in. So for the mutually agreeable price of $400,000, Devery and Farrell accepted a cool $382,000 return on their original investment. Ruppert installed himself as Yankees president. Huston became vice president. The Yankees continued to live deep in the Giants’ shadow, even as things perked up on the field. Then on December 26, 1919, Ruppert wrote another check, this one to Harry Frazee, owner of the Boston Red Sox, in the amount of $100,000. In return, Frazee sent his best player, a twenty-four-year-old who’d been one of the best pitchers in the sport until deciding he preferred hitting home runs instead. He’d hit a total of forty-nine of them by December 26, 1919.</p>
      <p class="indent">His name was Ruth.</p>
      <p class="indent">Or, as Colonel Jacob Ruppert called him for most of the next 6,958 days the two men knew each other—as owner/player, as friends, as adversarial contract negotiators, as bitter enemies—“Root.” Ruppert had been born in Yorkville and spent his whole life in Manhattan, but he spoke with a notable German accent, like he’d just stepped off the boat from Bavaria.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_14" title="14" />
        Now, this cold January morning, “Root” came quietly to the house at 1120 Fifth. He walked to Ruppert’s bedside. The owner had taken ill more than a year earlier, felled by phlebitis, his legs swollen and increasingly useless. He’d listened to the 1938 World Series on the radio from this bed, followed every play as the Yankees swept the Cubs to earn the seventh world championship of his stewardship.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">His eyes were closed when Ruth entered the room.</p>
      <p class="indent">Ruth took Ruppert’s hands in his.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You’re going to snap out of this,” Ruth said. “And you and I are going to the opening game together.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Ruth squeezed the old man’s hand.</p>
      <p class="indent">His eyes opened. And widened. And then softened.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Babe!” he called out softly, then closed his eyes for the final time.</p>
      <p class="indent">He died a few minutes later, at 10:28 a.m. He was seventy-one years old.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It was the only time in his life he ever called me ‘Babe’ to my face,” Ruth said later that day. “He always called me ‘Ruth.’ When all’s said and done, the colonel has been like a second father to me.”</p>
      <p class="indent">His anger dissolved, the great man bowed his head and wept.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">There have been</span>
        a total of nine men who have either owned or co-owned the New York Yankees—ten if you include Michael Burke, the man designated by CBS to serve as the team’s de facto owner when the network had the team from 1964 to ’73. Only two of them have been related to each other: George M. Steinbrenner III and Harold Z. Steinbrenner, father and son, the elder’s reign lasting from 1973 until his death in 2010, when the younger replaced him.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">In truth, though, George Steinbrenner and Jacob Ruppert were ideological twins.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Both were of German heritage. Both were the ambitious and earnest sons of hugely successful fathers. Both fathers were über-demanding; the elder Ruppert insisted young Jacob begin his time in the family business at age eighteen, washing barrels as an apprentice at $10 a week in lieu of attending
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_15" title="15" />
        West Point or Columbia, while Henry Steinbrenner staked his son at age nine to peddle hens and their eggs door-to-door in their native Rocky River, Ohio. Both took the job of “boss” extremely seriously. Both came to the Yankees after dallying with other sports franchises—Ruppert had inquired about the Giants and nearly bought the Cubs before the Yankees opportunity presented itself; Steinbrenner owned the Cleveland Pipers, who played in the National Industrial Basketball League and the American Basketball League (competitors of the established NBA) and folded after two years, and he later came very close to purchasing his hometown Cleveland Indians (now the Guardians). Both started beholden to other partners—Ruppert to Huston, whom he would buy out in 1922 for $1.5 million; Steinbrenner to eleven other limited partners at the outset of his association with the team in 1973.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And both wound up the undisputed boss of bosses, quick to infuse their opinions and their standards everywhere: front office, ground crew, ticket office, farm system, manager’s office, even the player’s sacred domain of the clubhouse on occasion.</p>
      <p class="indent">And both spoke their mind.</p>
      <p class="indent">We will get to Steinbrenner’s deep canon of such observations across much of the rest of this book. But if you look at some of Ruppert’s greatest hits through the years, then close your eyes and let your imagination drift, it’s not especially difficult to conjure Steinbrenner’s voice—either the real one or the fanciful one birthed by Larry David—uttering much the same spirit, if not the same words:</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <i>“In the American League, there seems to have been an entire lack of any concerted campaign to build up a club in New York which should rival the Giants on an even basis.”</i>
        </p>
        <p class="exta">
          <i>“Let the other teams in the league build up to the Yankees. We’ll never weaken our team to make the others look good as long as I own the club.”</i>
        </p>
        <p class="exta">
          <i>“Yankee Stadium is a mistake. Not mine. The Giants’.”</i>
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_16" title="16" />
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">After Ruppert died</span>
        , the Yankees were transferred to the partnership of Del Webb and Dan Topping (with Larry MacPhail, briefly, a third partner), who assumed far lower profiles but enjoyed just as much success as Ruppert had, winning ten World Series and fifteen American League pennants between 1947 and 1964. But it was when CBS bought the Yankees for $13.2 million after that ’64 season that their fortunes turned sour. They tumbled to sixth place in 1965, and in 1966 they finished in last place for the first time since 1912. Attendance plummeted, thanks to a terrible triumvirate of lousy play, decaying ballpark and rotting neighborhood, bottoming out at 966,328 in 1972.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Burke, CBS’s man in the Bronx, tried everything. He was an engaging raconteur who’d served in the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) in World War II (Gary Cooper’s character in the 1946 movie
        <i>Cloak and Dagger</i>
        was based on him) and later served in the early years of the CIA before running Ringling Bros. and Barnum &amp; Bailey Circus. In 1956 CBS president Frank Stanton recruited him to the network, and after ten years as a vice president, Stanton and CBS chairman William Paley asked Burke if he’d like to take a crack at running the Yankees.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Burke dove joyfully into the job.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        He had Yankee Stadium repainted. He made an aggressive play for younger fans, who’d been fleeing the Yankees for the Mets. He didn’t just invite old ballplayers to throw out the first pitch to important games: In 1968 the poet Marianne Moore did that on Opening Day; a year later, Paul Simon did it (with Art Garfunkel smiling by his side). In 1967 as an answer to “Meet the Mets,” the first baseball fight song that was forever on the tip of every New York baseball fan’s tongue—including Yankees fans—he commissioned a fight song of their own, “Here Come the Yankees.” And in his most important decision, he’d commenced negotiations to keep the Yankees in the Bronx at a time when New Jersey had successfully poached the football Giants and trained its scope on the Yankees, too. When the city agreed to condemn the land under the stadium, buy it from the landlord
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_17" title="17" />
        (Rice University) and toss in $24 million to give it a facelift, Burke agreed the team would stay.
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          During his third day on the job in 1966, Burke fired Red Barber, one of the most accomplished broadcasters in team history. Barber had insisted that the WPIX television cameras span the vast empty grandstand at Yankee Stadium for a makeup game with the White Sox on September 22, a game that only 413 attended. CBS was furious and wanted Barber gone, and while it might not have been Burke’s call, the way he soon described the dismissal—“I believe that for every man there is a time to come and a time to go. In my opinion it was Red’s time to go.”—was every bit as cold-blooded and detached as any transaction ordered by the man who would soon occupy his office.
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">But the team was still a mess. It was still losing. It was still hemorrhaging money. In 1970 the defending world champion Mets officially doubled the Yankees’ home attendance (2.7 million to 1.13 million)—this in a year when the Yankees actually won ninety-three games, ten more than their NL neighbors—and then did it again the next two years. By late 1972 CBS was willing to part with the team, and Paley told Burke he was free to assemble a partnership that would allow him, at last, an official ownership stake.</p>
      <p class="indent">But Burke, for all the fascinating adventures that filled his life, was not a wealthy man. He needed partners with pockets deep enough to woo Paley. He had one in mind.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        George Steinbrenner was a forty-two-year-old shipping executive who’d spent some time as an assistant football coach in the Big Ten with Purdue and Northwestern and, later, briefly owned a pro basketball team. Burke had a friend in Cleveland with whom he’d shared the news about CBS and the Yankees, and that friend—initially, neither man wished to identify him—brought the two of them together. They hit it off beautifully. At their first meeting in New York, Burke took Steinbrenner to lunch at Brussels Restaurant on East Fifty-Fourth Street, where the veal was the specialty
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_18" title="18" />
        of the house and the tables far enough apart that they wouldn’t draw attention to themselves. The men bonded over their shared love of football (Steinbrenner had been a halfback at Williams College; Burke played the same position at Pennsylvania). Burke, a progressive who’d attempted his whole time with the Yankees to diversify what had long been a lily-white operation, admired Steinbrenner for employing the first Black coach in any of the four major sports, John McLendon, with the Cleveland Pipers. And Steinbrenner admired Burke’s easy panache, the way he seemed to glide about the city, always the coolest fellow in any room into which he ever walked. Soon, the men met with Paley, and in the odd vernacular of the day Paley had one question.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Are you for real or did you come here with Chinese money?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“No, sir,” Steinbrenner said. “I come here with all the American cash I have and partners who are eager to do the same.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“That’s what I like to hear,” Paley said.</p>
      <p class="indent">By New Year’s Day, a deal—conducted almost entirely in secret, somehow away from the prying eyes and bionic ears of New York’s aggressive corps of baseball writers—was all but done.</p>
      <p class="indent">“We had a surprise for New York for the New Year,” Burke said in 1981.</p>
      <p class="indent">Yes. Yes they did.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
