<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch4">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_35" title="35" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch4">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch4">Chapter 4</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>I didn’t get along with George and it was partly my own fault. He was taking over and doing stuff himself. He was getting so personally involved, making the decisions on his own and not giving anybody else any credit for anything. So I was happy to leave him.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">
        —LEE M
        <small>AC</small>
        PHAIL
      </p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">G</span>
        eorge Steinbrenner had arrived at Yankee Stadium in a salty mood to begin with, and nothing he saw across the two hours and thirty-seven minutes of a baseball game was going to lighten his mood. As he looked around his vast new ballpark, one thing deeply troubled him: acres upon acres of empty seats. There had been a time—and there would be, again—when the Yankees’ home opener would be treated almost as a secular holy day of obligation, an unofficial civic holiday. There was the usual pomp and circumstance attached to the day; it was festive; the weather was about as nice as you could ask for early April in New York City: partly sunny, on the cool side, a little wind. But as the day inched forward, and as Steinbrenner took his place in the owner’s box just behind the Yankees’ dugout on the first base side of the field, he had a question for his two companions: his partner Michael Burke and the team’s general manager, Lee MacPhail.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Where are all the people?”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_36" title="36" />
        Three days earlier, on April 6, Steinbrenner accepted an invitation from Joan Payson, owner of the Mets, to sit with her and her baseball cabinet at Shea Stadium for the Mets’ opener. The Mets, too, were disappointed with the turnout: only 27,326 to watch a team that was one of the favorites to win the National League’s East Division—and to watch two Cy Young Award–winning pitchers, New York’s Tom Seaver and Philadelphia’s Steve Carlton, duel each other. But Steinbrenner spent much of the game with his ear glued to a transistor radio, where Phil Rizzuto, Bill White and Frank Messer were taking turns describing a nine-inning calamity taking place at Boston’s Fenway Park.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">In future years, Steinbrenner would make a regular habit of attending such games in person, especially once he became familiar with the long and entangled (and mostly one-way) rivalry between the Yankees and Red Sox. But he decided to wait a few days, for the home opener, to see his team—which was also considered the betting favorite to win the American League East—in person. Early on, the news was terrific. One of his players, Ron Blomberg, became the first-ever designated hitter in baseball’s history (two days after Steinbrenner’s 21 gathering, the AL had voted in favor of the DH, which would take the place of the pitcher in the batting order; the NL wouldn’t adopt the rule for another forty-nine years), and Blomberg drew a bases-loaded walk against Boston’s Luis Tiant, part of a three-run top of the first for the Yankees.</p>
      <p class="indent">That was as good as it got. The Red Sox throttled Yankees ace Mel Stottlemyre for six runs and eight hits in two and two-thirds innings, and the Red Sox demolished the Yankees in the first game of Steinbrenner’s reign, 15–5—all of this as he sat through a 3–0 Mets victory at Shea. The Sox won the next two days, too, including an excruciating game Sunday afternoon in which the Yankees rallied in the top of the ninth to tie the game at 3–3 only to have Boston’s DH, Orlando Cepeda, clobber the first pitch he saw from Sparky Lyle for a game-winning home run.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        So to begin with, Steinbrenner wasn’t in a chipper mood, with his team already 0–3 on the season. The thin crowd—only 17,028 would make it through the red-painted entrance kiosks—clouded his mood further. And
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_37" title="37" />
        a few minutes before the game began at 2:13 p.m., Steinbrenner angrily removed a pen and a piece of paper from the pocket of his sports jacket. MacPhail took notice of what he wrote:
        <i>17. 1. 15. 28</i>
        .
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner didn’t yet know their names. And as they stood at attention right in front of Steinbrenner, listening to opera singer Robert Merrill sing the national anthem, facing the American flag in center field, he couldn’t see their faces, either. He just knew that he didn’t at all like the length of the hair spilling out the back of Yankees caps belonging to number 17 (Gene Michael), number 1 (Bobby Murcer), number 15 (Thurman Munson) and number 28 (Sparky Lyle).</p>
      <p class="indent">MacPhail, sitting to Steinbrenner’s left, had no idea what the numbers were in reference to. Burke, sitting to Steinbrenner’s right, probably would have been able to guess. A few weeks earlier, on the first day pitchers and catchers reported to Fort Lauderdale Stadium for spring training, Steinbrenner and Burke also had an assignment. They were scheduled to take a picture together for the Yankees 1973 yearbook, a page that would be titled “Yankee General Partners” at the top and would feature both men’s autographs at the bottom.</p>
      <p class="indent">But the picture itself . . .</p>
      <p class="indent">On the left is Michael Burke, bedecked in what can best be described as straight from the 1973 Mike Brady line of fashion: a long (though well-groomed) mop of gray hair, theoretically parted on the left side of his head, with a blue denim work shirt open to two buttons north of his belt. He is wearing a bemused smile. On the right is George M. Steinbrenner III (the signature used all four segments), wearing a blue golf shirt buttoned to his neck, a blue blazer, his close-cropped hair neatly parted on the right side of his head, his expression not unlike the father who comes home early to discover a three-keg party overtaking his house.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I don’t have a problem with long hair,” Steinbrenner would soon declare in a letter to MacPhail, referring directly to his players and peripherally to his partner. “But some of our guys look a little shaggy.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The shaggiest of Steinbrenner’s hirsute holdouts would soon receive an extra dose of Steinbrenner’s venom, as would each of his seatmates.
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_38" title="38" />
        The opponent was the Cleveland Indians—the same club Steinbrenner had tried to buy two years earlier. This was also Steinbrenner’s hometown team, and for as long as Steinbrenner would own the Yankees, every loss to Cleveland would register as two for the erstwhile Indians fan.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner hadn’t yet spent much time around MacPhail, the future Hall of Fame executive who’d helped build the Baltimore Orioles into the most powerful franchise in baseball before joining the Yankees in 1965 and accepting the difficult task of trying to rebuild a crumbling dynasty. He’d done so with great deliberation, and by 1970 the Yankees won ninety-three games, ten more than the crosstown Mets, thanks to finding and developing fine players like catcher (and future captain) Munson, outfielder Roy White and Murcer, the franchise cornerstone. Despite the slow start, many baseball experts still believed the Yankees had an excellent chance of halting their postseason drought at eight.</p>
      <p class="indent">But sitting in his box on April 9, Steinbrenner sure couldn’t see it. For one thing, the infamous trade that Gabe Paul and MacPhail had engineered while Paul was still working for Cleveland (even as he was pushing the Yankees sale along) was looking like a one-sided steal—in the wrong direction—and Steinbrenner was furious at both men: MacPhail for getting snookered and Paul for snookering MacPhail. The jewel of the trade, Graig Nettles, went 1-for-4 and booted a double-play grounder that allowed Cleveland to take the lead; meanwhile three of the ex-Yankees—Charlie Spikes, Rusty Torres, John Ellis—combined for six hits.</p>
      <p class="indent">So there was that.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then there was Bobby Murcer.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Early in March MacPhail made Murcer just the third Yankee (after Joe DiMaggio and Mickey Mantle) to ever sign a $100,000 contract—a plateau that, in 1973, was the top of the mountain for baseball salaries. Steinbrenner exploded. That was a $32,000 raise from 1972, and Steinbrenner didn’t find it at all funny when he read in the newspapers that MacPhail said, “I was hoping Bobby would call back and tell me ‘You know, I’m too young [at twenty-six, he’d be the second-youngest player—behind Reds catcher Johnny Bench—to ever hit $100K] to make this kind of money.’” But
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_39" title="39" />
        MacPhail was smiling as he said it, and the baseball writers saluted the GM for identifying the most popular Yankee and paying him a fair wage.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner seethed.</p>
      <p class="indent">Now, at the home opener at Yankee Stadium, Steinbrenner was eager to be found wrong. Cleveland led the Yankees 2–1 in the bottom of the eighth, but with two outs Matty Alou singled and the sparse crowd rose and roared as Bobby Murcer stepped to the plate with that lefty swing custom-designed for Yankee Stadium’s inviting right field porch. Murcer had walked and flied out twice in three appearances so far; he represented the game’s go-ahead run with the tying run on base.</p>
      <p class="indent">Murcer struck out looking.</p>
      <p class="indent">Maybe other crowds in other years would’ve booed Murcer mercilessly, but he was the favored son, so most of the 17,028 in attendance just groaned, and then groaned some more when the Indians added an insurance run and finished off a 3–1 win.</p>
      <p class="indent">In the owner’s box, as soon as umpire Larry Barnett’s arm had risen high to ring up Murcer, George Steinbrenner turned sharply to Lee MacPhail.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“SO THIS IS THE BUM WE’RE PAYING A HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS?”</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">MacPhail said nothing. Years later, he would write, “It was in that moment I realized that things were going to be a little different around the Yankees.”</p>
      <p class="indent">In truth, they already were.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">On July 15,</span>
        1972, George Steinbrenner was still licking his wounds after coming so close to purchasing the Indians, and he busied himself with work at American Ship Building Co. That day at Yankee Stadium the Yankees dropped a 6–2 game to the eventual-champion Oakland A’s in front of a modest Saturday-afternoon gathering. Fritz Peterson, the Yankees’ flaky left-hander, had pitched well, surrendering only three runs in seven innings against a powerful Athletics lineup. That night, Peterson joined his wife, Marilyn, and a few other Yankees teammates and their spouses—Mike Kekich and his wife, Susanne; Ron Swoboda and his wife, Cecilia—at a
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_40" title="40" />
        barbecue at what seems like a most unlikely place: the home of Maury and Janet Allen in Scarsdale, a Westchester County suburb just north of the Bronx. Allen was the Yankees’ beat writer for the
        <i>New York Post</i>
        , but in those simpler times it wasn’t unusual for the writers and the players to have a cozy enough relationship that they would mingle for a night of hamburgers and beers. And the night was a success, the party not breaking up until two in the morning.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">By three, Maury and Janet had cleaned up and were headed for bed when Maury looked out the window and noticed the Petersons and the Kekiches were still there, leaning against their cars in front of the house.</p>
      <p class="indent">“We remarked about it and went to bed,” Allen would remember years later. “These are ballplayers, remember, different from you and me.”</p>
      <p class="indent">What the Allens had witnessed, on the sly, was a burgeoning romance that was about as 1973 an event as 1973 could yield. A few months before, the Kekiches and the Petersons had discovered that while they enjoyed one another’s company immensely, they’d begun to believe they were going home with the wrong spouse.</p>
      <p class="indent">So they swapped. Literally.</p>
      <p class="indent">“We didn’t change wives,” Fritz Peterson would say. “We changed lives.”</p>
      <p class="indent">It had been a whisper around the Yankees for weeks in 1972, and slowly became an open secret within the soundproof walls of the clubhouse. Peterson moved to Kekich’s house in Mahwah, New Jersey, living with Susanne Kekich, her two daughters and their family pet. Seven miles south, in Franklin Lakes, Kekich moved into Peterson’s house, living with Marilyn Peterson, her two sons and their family pet. Their teammates afforded the two lefties their privacy. And for a while it was blissful. Until it wasn’t. Fritz and Susanne fell madly in love. Within a few months, Marilyn left Mike and moved in with her mother in Chicago. The original agreement was that if anyone felt uncomfortable with the arrangement they’d all go back. Falling in (and out of) love changed the calibration. And also sparked a little bitterness.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Which is how it came to pass that late in the afternoon of March 5, a story moved on the United Press International wire, written by UPI’s ace baseball writer Milton Richman. The open secret was now an open feeding
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_41" title="41" />
        frenzy. The Yankees called a hastily arranged press conference, summoning the four traveling beat writers to hear the players’ tortured testimony. Sheila Moran, whom the
        <i>Post</i>
        had sent to Florida as the first woman to cover a baseball team, wasn’t invited. She was told the Yankees hoped the story would be treated “gently” by the veteran male scribes.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“This isn’t as big a deal as it seems,” she was told.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Moran figured she’d find that out on her own. She dialed up Susan Kekich and Marilyn Peterson, got them both to open up about this real-life, baseball-flavored take on
        <i>Bob &amp; Carol &amp; Ted &amp; Alice</i>
        . And suddenly this wasn’t going to be a story buried in the back with the harness-racing roundups.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Well,” Lee MacPhail said dryly. “I guess Family Day is off this year.”</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          Years later, Ben Affleck and Matt Damon—just about the highest-profile Red Sox fans in creation—attempted to write and produce a movie,
          <i>The Trade</i>
          , based on the Peterson/Kekich swap. They wrote a treatment in 2010, and by 2014 got Jay Roach attached as a director, although by then they’d aged out of being able to play their two favorite Yankees. The movie has yet to be green-lit.
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">George Steinbrenner, to put it mildly, saw little about this that was terribly funny.</p>
      <p class="indent">But he was also awaiting final approval from the other American League owners. So he kept his profile low. It had already been a flustering stretch for Steinbrenner. In January he’d attended the annual Baseball Writers’ Dinner in New York and was introduced to his star relief pitcher, Sparky Lyle; Lyle was on crutches. The next day, Steinbrenner picked up a newspaper, turned to the sports page and learned that Murcer—his hundred-thousand-dollar bum—had broken his hand.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        And now . . . well.
        <i>This</i>
        .
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Still, after the news broke, providing Johnny Carson with a few days of easy material, Steinbrenner found himself in Fort Lauderdale Stadium,
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_42" title="42" />
        watching the Yankees. Peterson had yet to officially report to camp, since he was unsigned, although he watched the game from the stadium’s rooftop. But Kekich was there. He started a game against the Orioles March 10, pitched two innings, allowed two walks and two hits and a run. He had a tender elbow, which didn’t help. He also had a few admirers scattered in the stands.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Hey, Kekich!” one yelled. “Where’s your wife?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Which one?” the guy next to him asked helpfully.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Hey, Kekich!” another leather-lunged commentator screeched. “Let your wife pitch!”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner, admittedly and proudly as conservative as trickle-down economics, quietly admonished: “Shut up, you bum.” Then, a few seconds later, he saw that a few of the fan’s neighbors in the stands offered the same advice.</p>
      <p class="indent">“That shut him up immediately,” Steinbrenner said. “I was happy to see that. Mike didn’t deserve that kind of treatment.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Perhaps those words camouflaged what he was really feeling about the whole, um, affair. But the fact was: In his first public opportunity to show compassion for a man who was clearly going through a spell, George Steinbrenner chose kindness. That wouldn’t always be his playbook.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
