<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 23</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch23">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_271" title="271" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch23">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch23">Chapter 23</a>
      </h1>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="extt">
          <i>You know how they say a “dog year” is like seven for a human? If you calculated “George years” I’d probably be celebrating my bicentennial soon.</i>
        </p>
        <p class="exti">
          —
          <span class="smallcaps">Gene Michael</span>
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="noindent">
        <span class="dropcap">S</span>
        ometimes, when you worked at a tabloid when the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        /
        <i>Post</i>
        /
        <i>Newsday</i>
        war was at its most intense, you woke up with an unshakable sense of dread. This was before the internet, before social media, when an exclusive story lasts only as long as it takes to confirm with your own sources. In those days, if you got beat on a story, the misery lasted—best case—a full day. It caused a lot of dread and a lot of dyspepsia among the rank and file on the Yankees beat.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Every now and then, though, there’d appear something in one of the competing papers for which even rivals had to pause for a moment, smile, throw a quiet salute.</p>
      <p class="indent">Such was the case on the morning of Friday, November 3, 1995.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        There, on the back page of the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        , was a photo of Joe Torre, minutes after his introduction as the new Yankees’ manager, smiling broadly in front of the Yankees’ Uncle-Sam-hat-on-a-bat logo. And over this image was a headline dreamed up by a young desk man named Anthony Rieber (later a fine baseball writer for
        <i>Newsday</i>
        ):
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span class="smallcaps">CLUELESS JOE</span>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_272" title="272" />
        Inside the paper, columnist Ian O’Connor led his piece thusly: “He thinks he knows, but he has not a clue. Joe Torre described George Steinbrenner in rational terms yesterday, calling him an unyielding competitor and demanding boss. He just wants a winner on the field, and my job is to give it to him. New day, old song. Torre’s smile belied the moment. It is always a sad occasion when a man becomes a muppet.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Across the next thirteen years, that back page would be cited more than
        <span class="smallcaps">dewey defeats truman</span>
        as the Yankees became a modern-day dynasty under Torre. Of course, in the moment, it was 100 percent accurate, as was the column. Nobody was accusing Torre of being a clueless baseball man, just naive in the ways of George. And who could argue? In the twenty-two years Steinbrenner owned the Yankees he had now changed managers twenty-two times.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The most recent one had nearly caused a mutiny.</p>
      <p class="indent">As his sadness over the Yankees’ loss to the Mariners in the 1995 ALDS morphed, inevitably, into anger, the Boss convinced himself the reason the Yankees’ had blown a 2–0 lead in that best-of-five series was due, in part, to complacency that Steinbrenner—and only Steinbrenner—could plainly see had crept into the organization. People performed better when they worked on edge. There would be change. The first one was easy: He told Gene Michael he wanted him back as GM but he’d need to accept a $200,000 salary cut.</p>
      <p class="indent">Michael said, “There’s no way I’m doing that, George.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The men agreed that Stick would become something of a combined adviser/superscout/sounding board—he would soon be affectionately referred to as a “designated guru”—for a modest low-six-figure salary and the ability to get his voice (to say nothing of his golf game, and his sanity) back again. Steinbrenner charged Michael with the task of finding his own replacement. He did so merrily.</p>
      <p class="indent">Buck Showalter was a different matter.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Boss was antsy.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I want you back,” he said in their first conversation after Seattle. “But you need to change up your coaching staff.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_273" title="273" />
        Specifically, he wanted hitting coach Rick Down gone.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“If you fire my coaches, George,” Showalter said, “that’s as good as firing me.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Showalter played golf after that conversation, figured there’d be another. He returned home to discover the Yankees had issued a statement saying he had resigned.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I tried to dissuade him,” Steinbrenner insisted.</p>
      <p class="indent">What resulted was an outcry unlike any Steinbrenner had ever experienced.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It’s never been like this before,” he told Michael. “Not even close.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“I tried to warn you, George,” Stick said.</p>
      <p class="indent">In the meantime, Michael hired Bob Watson, the ex-Yankee first baseman who’d done a fine job as GM of the Houston Astros, for his old job. After a strong recommendation from close Steinbrenner adviser Arthur Richman, who’d worked for the Mets from their inception before switching sides, Torre was also hired.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner called Gene Michael. He was frantic.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Are you sure Torre can do the job?” the Boss asked.</p>
      <p class="indent">“He’s very good,” Michael said. “And he’s a New York guy.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “But is he the
        <i>best</i>
        man for the job?”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Michael held the phone away from his face for a second. He no longer had to take bullets for his boss, not anymore.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I told you who the
        <i>best</i>
        man was, George. I told you to keep Buck.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">There was silence for a beat.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then: “What if I get Buck back?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner called Jim Krivacs, Showalter’s agent. Krivacs told him Buck was about to sign on with the expansion Arizona Diamondbacks, who wouldn’t begin play until 1998 but were offering to essentially give Showalter free rein and at a steep raise.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Don’t you already have a manager?” Krivacs asked.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Details, details. Steinbrenner already figured that part out: He could just stash Torre on top of his pile of advisers; at a half million a year, who would argue? A few days later, Showalter shook hands with Arizona owner
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_274" title="274" />
        Jerry Colangelo on a seven-year, $7 million deal. He walked into his house in Pensacola.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And found Steinbrenner in the living room.</p>
      <p class="indent">He was eating cookies baked by Buck’s wife, Angela.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Soon he would eat the slightest morsel of crow, realizing he’d changed his mind too late. The men shook hands. They figured they would keep this as their own little secret. That lasted a few weeks, until Jack Curry of the
        <i>Times</i>
        caught wind of the rumor, confirmed it and splashed it at the top of the paper’s Sunday Sports section on December 3.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">O’Connor had gotten it exactly right.</p>
      <p class="indent">New day, same song.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Of course, what</span>
        we know now is this: It may have been impossible for Steinbrenner to have identified, and hired, a more perfect manager than Torre, whose personality was ideally suited for the job, far better than any one of the thirteen men who’d preceded him.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Nothing bothered him,” said Willie Randolph, his third base coach. “Certainly not George. Not that he ever let anyone see.”</p>
      <p class="indent">It helped that the ’96 Yankees made the transition easy. They moved into first April 28 and stayed there the rest of the season’s final 154 days. The tone was set opening day, in snow-blown Cleveland, when rookie Derek Jeter, twenty-one years old and freshly installed as the everyday shortstop, hit a home run and made a spectacular over-the-shoulder catch to help David Cone shut down the defending AL champions. Bernie Williams bloomed into a full-blown star. Andy Pettitte, twenty-four, won twenty-one games.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Two unwanted imports also helped the cause. One was Joe Girardi, acquired from Colorado at the behest of new bench coach Don Zimmer. Girardi was given the job over über-popular Mike Stanley, exiled to Boston because Torre favored Girardi’s defense (and Steinbrenner didn’t like that Stanley was one of Showalter’s loyal lieutenants). The other was Tino Martinez, a slugging first baseman who’d helped Seattle tame the Yankees in the playoffs. His chief sin: He wasn’t Don Mattingly, who’d chosen to
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_275" title="275" />
        take a year off to evaluate if he wanted to further his career. Both transactions were greeted with such public malice that at the home opener on April 9 the Yankees canceled the tradition of introducing the whole team to stand along the first base line because they feared the ugly greeting the fans might give Girardi and Martinez (to say nothing of Joe Torre). Both would hear boos—and worse—ringing down from the grandstands at the bleachers at Yankee Stadium.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Both eventually won the fans over. It helped that the Yankees, at last, had assembled a team built to survive the 162-game test of a regular season. Jeter was named Rookie of the Year. Martinez became an RBI machine, driving in 117 runs. Bernie Williams blossomed into a full-blown star (.305, twenty-nine homers, 102 RBIs). The Yankees held off a late charge by the Orioles to finish in first place in a full season for the first time in sixteen years. They promptly dispatched the Rangers in the ALDS and the Orioles in the AL Championship Series, losing only two games along the way.</p>
      <p class="indent">They were the first two postseason series Joe Torre ever won, either as a player or as a manager. Finally, he would get a taste of the World Series, a destination he’d grown to believe he’d never reach. And at first, it didn’t go well. The Yankees entered the series heavy underdogs to the defending-champion Atlanta Braves, and the Braves proved equal to the betting line, pounding the Yankees in Game 1 at Yankee Stadium, 12–1. Then Torre delivered what proved to be one of the defining moments of his professional relationship with Steinbrenner.</p>
      <p class="indent">The next day, as Torre filled out his lineup card for Game 2, there was a knock on his office door.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner bypassed hello.</p>
      <p class="indent">“This is a must-win!” he barked. “I hope you have the guys ready!”</p>
      <p class="indent">Torre stood up and greeted the Boss with a smile.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I got news for you, Boss,” he said. “The Braves have Greg Maddux on the mound, and he’s the best pitcher in the world. Our guys have been scuffling with the bats. We’re probably going to lose tonight, too.” (Which they did, 4–0.)</p>
      <p class="indent">Before Steinbrenner could answer, Torre continued.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_276" title="276" />
        “But Atlanta’s my town [he’d played there from 1966 through 1968 and managed the Braves from 1982 to 1984]. We’re going to go down there, win all three, and then next Saturday we’re gonna come back here and win Game 6. How do you like that?”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">With that Torre patted Steinbrenner on the shoulder, walked out of his own office and left the Boss speechless.</p>
      <p class="indent">The fact that the Yankees did just that was one last tribute to the calming waters that Torre’s presence brought.</p>
      <p class="indent">In Game 3, the key moment came when Torre visited the mound to talk to Cone, who was clearly leaking gas and had loaded the bases with one out, the Yankees leading 2–0. A year earlier, in a similar predicament in Seattle, Game 5, Buck Showalter had trusted Cone’s heart but been betrayed by his arm: Cone walked in the tying run. This time Torre told Cone, “I want you to level with me. Look me in the eye.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Cone did.</p>
      <p class="indent">“How do you feel?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Five months earlier, Cone thought his career might be over when he was diagnosed with an aneurysm in his pitching shoulder. Now he looked into Torre’s eyes. He knew the manager wanted the truth. But also knew he preferred a certain answer.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m good,” Cone said. And proceeded to get out of the inning with a 2–1 lead. The Yankees won that night, and would sweep all three games in Atlanta.</p>
      <p class="indent">Now it was time for the Hollywood stuff.</p>
      <p class="indent">In the summer, Torre had lost his oldest brother, Rocco, who suffered a fatal heart attack while watching a Yankees–Indians game on TV. The day before Game 6 his other brother, Frank, himself an ex-ballplayer, received a heart transplant. Steinbrenner hadn’t left Torre completely alone on the way to the Canyon of Heroes, especially when the Orioles cut the Yankees’ lead to two and a half games in September. But Torre always kept him at arm’s length. And now Torre was on the verge of repaying that fragile trust.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “He couldn’t kill me,” Torre recalled years later. “He couldn’t hurt my family. All he could do is fire me, and guess what? I’d already been fired
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_277" title="277" />
        three times and lived to tell about it every time. Nobody
        <i>wants</i>
        to be fired. But you can’t let it consume you.”
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">If only Torre</span>
        could’ve transferred some of his zen to poor Bob Watson. With Michael out of the way, there was nobody close to Steinbrenner who could blunt his worst impulses. There had long been floods of stories emanating from the corridors of Yankee Stadium as well as the Boss’s Tampa headquarters about what a tyrant Steinbrenner could be: a string of secretaries fired on whims, an even longer list of interns and junior executives and PR staffers who’d made seemingly minor mistakes—or simply turned the wrong corner at the wrong moment when Steinbrenner was in the wrong mood—and wound up fired. Sometimes they’d show up for work the next day and the Boss would forget the whole thing; sometimes they’d find someone else in their parking space. From the start he’d been prickly, and sometimes worse, and would often justify this by saying, “If you think I’m tough, you should have worked for my father. . . .”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">There was a fairly public glimpse of all of this a few days before Christmas 1995. Steinbrenner engaged in a protracted negotiation to re-sign David Cone, and finally the deal was completed on December 21. Steinbrenner wanted to have a press conference the next day and reached out to his PR director, Rob Butcher. The problem was, Butcher was in Wilmington, Ohio, when the news broke, together with his parents and nine siblings for the first time in six years. He’d cleared the trip with Steinbrenner repeatedly; even then, when he landed in Ohio and saw the news, he called back to New York and said he’d jump on the next plane and be there to conduct the news gathering.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Don’t bother,” he was told. “He just fired you.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Butcher got on the plane anyway, got to the stadium in plenty of time, sought out Steinbrenner, tried to apologize.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Finish out the year,” the Boss said. “And find another job.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Butcher called home. He told his mother he’d been fired.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You got fired on Christmas weekend?” she asked.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Yes.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_278" title="278" />
        “Why would you want to work for someone who would do something like that?”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        That one landed Steinbrenner on the back pages, but not the way he preferred; the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        screamed
        <span class="smallcaps">scrooge!</span>
        with a cartoon George as Ebenezer himself, replete with cane and top hat. Steinbrenner later offered Butcher his job back but Butcher, to the eternal delight of hundreds who’d similarly ran afoul of the Boss’s moods, chose instead to do PR work for the Atlanta Olympics; a year later he became media relations VP for the Cincinnati Reds, until his retirement in 2024.
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          There was one giddy Yankees fan who was able to turn the tables somewhat on the Boss. Larry David had hilariously portrayed Steinbrenner on
          <i>Seinfeld</i>
          (from the back, and always with an exaggerated voice impression) for years, and as the show’s chief producer thought it would be great to get the actual Steinbrenner to appear. The Boss flew to LA, did a scene with Elaine (Julia Louis-Dreyfus) at a restaurant and then triumphantly talked about it everywhere the moment he landed back in Tampa. That annoyed David. But that’s not why the scenes never ran.
        </p>
        <p class="exti3">“He sucked!” David said. “He was awful!”</p>
        <p class="extiz">
          The scenes survive on YouTube; you can judge for yourself if the Boss’s acting chops improved since
          <i>Saturday Night Live</i>
          .
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">Bob Watson, he never got used to the constant belittling, the ceaseless badgering, the uninterrupted second-guessing. Steinbrenner himself made many of the moves that filled out the 1996 champs. He’d acquired Tim Raines. He’d retained Cone. He gave Darryl Strawberry another chance, and this time Strawberry delivered eleven homers in 202 at bats. He signed yet another faded Mets hero, Dwight Gooden, who stunningly repaid the gesture by throwing a no-hitter at the Mariners on May 14. Watson acquired slugger Cecil Fielder at the deadline (with the Boss’s approval of his $7 million salary), but he also traded for lefty relief pitcher Graeme Lloyd, who was initially terrible and then admitted his arm was hurting.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_279" title="279" />
        Steinbrenner became unhinged as he watched Lloyd struggle and ripped Watson with such ferocity that it quickly got back to the GM, who was unnerved by it.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“If he has a problem, he should talk to me,” Watson said. “I’m a man. I can handle it.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner had already sent an unmistakable message. Even as the Yankees’ lead shrank against the Orioles, he delivered a vote of confidence for Torre; he did no such thing for Watson, whom he made sweat for several weeks
        <i>after</i>
        they all won a championship together. That was no favor to Watson, who continued to boil at Steinbrenner’s perceived disrespect. Even as the Yankees cruised to ninety-six wins and a return to the playoffs in 1997, Watson’s health deteriorated. He gained weight. He was hospitalized when his blood pressure spiked. After a while, he simply locked himself in his office, far away from the maddening crowd; when he finally quit in February 1998 the consensus was his departure was something of a merciful termination.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Stepping into the breach would be a bookish thirty-year-old who’d played second base at Catholic University in Washington, DC, for four years and had joined the Yankees as an intern in 1986. When he graduated college three years later he’d been hired full-time in baseball operations. Brian Cashman’s father, John, was the manager at Castleton Farm in Lexington, Kentucky, and had long been friends with Steinbrenner, but if there was any trace of concern about Cashman’s “hook” with the Yankees he quickly made them vanish with years of seventy-hour workweeks. He was a grinder, he was smart and he’d become a top assistant to both Michael and Watson, so when the time came to promote him the Boss offered him a multiyear contract.</p>
      <p class="indent">Cashman turned him down.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner was perplexed.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I want a one-year contract,” Cashman said. “I want to prove I’m correct for the job.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner couldn’t argue with that logic. He snapped Cashman up: one year, $150,000. To that date, he had hired eleven general managers in twenty-five years. He would never hire another.</p>
      <p class="noindentt">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_280" title="280" />
        <span class="bold">Steinbrenner had long</span>
        been fascinated by David Wells, a roly-poly lefty with a rubber arm who’d mostly underachieved across a ten-year career, compiling a 90–75 record with a 3.99 ERA while pitching for the Jays, Tigers, Reds and Orioles. To that point he’d never received even one vote for Cy Young, but Wells, a Yankees fan, had purchased for $30,000 a game-used cap worn by Babe Ruth, whose nutritional plan Wells also seemed to favor.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">After Steinbrenner signed Wells to a three-year, $13.5 million contract Wells hinted he might be every bit the handful that Jackson used to be, for different reasons. He hurt the pinky finger of his pitching hand in a late-night encounter in his native San Diego in January, and while he was cleared of wrongdoing, when Steinbrenner offered a helpful piece of advice—“Stay out of bars”—Wells had a retort for his new benefactor with what amounted to his philosophy on problem-solving.</p>
      <p class="indent">“If it’s beer, then go to whiskey,” Wells said. “If it’s whiskey, then go to vodka.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner tried to make light of it when Wells showed up to camp with a painful case of gout—which the tabs were more than happy to report was also known, colloquially, as “fat man’s disease.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Torre did his best to keep the peace. When Wells reported at 248 pounds he laughed.</p>
      <p class="indent">“That’s a few pounds over acceptable weight, maybe five pounds,” said Torre, who himself had struggled with weight early in his playing career. “But let’s face it: at 243 he’d still look a few pounds overweight.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        As long as Wells could take the ball every fifth day he wasn’t going to find issue with Torre, and through mid-August 1997 Wells was the ace of Torre’s staff, 14–5 with a 3.60 ERA. But the dog days got to Wells, and he fell apart over the next few weeks, getting slapped around to the tune of a 7.71 ERA. To Steinbrenner’s eyes, it seemed he was starting to gain three or four pounds between every appearance. One day in early September, the two men ran into each other in the Yankees’ clubhouse. A day earlier, a fan
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_281" title="281" />
        lunged over the right field wall to take a ball away from Paul O’Neill, who thought he could have caught it. It was ruled a home run.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Hey, George, you need to get some new security out there,” Wells said. “Build a wall or something.” He was smiling.</p>
      <p class="indent">George was not.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Never mind about the fucking security,” he snapped. “Just worry about pitching. You better start winning some games because you’re not the pitcher I thought you were.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Wells was no longer smiling, either.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Is that right?” he said. “Well, you can go fuck yourself. If you don’t like it, you can trade me.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Believe me, I would, but nobody wants your fat ass.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“You better get the fuck out of this room before I fucking kick your ass.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Go ahead, do it. Try it. You think I’m afraid of you?”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        When they finally walked away from each other Steinbrenner was heard to mutter, “I paid fourteen million dollars for
        <i>this</i>
        ?”
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">The Yankees’ defense</span>
        of their first championship in eighteen years ended quickly in the 1997 playoffs, the Indians rallying from a 2–1 deficit to beat the Yankees in five games after the Orioles had outpaced the Yanks to win the AL East, New York having to settle for a wild card berth. Afterward, Steinbrenner vowed: “We’ll win it all next year. Mark my words.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Cashman’s first job as GM was to finalize a blockbuster deal that made four-time All-Star second baseman Chuck Knoblauch a Yankee, and soon he added veteran slugger Chili Davis. Later, the Yankees would add a thirty-two-year-old rookie named Orlando Hernandez, a legendary Cuban pitcher who’d boarded a rickety raft to seek freedom in 1997, and when he landed ashore on US soil found himself in a bidding war; El Duque would be a Yankee by summer.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Before that, though, the Yankees began the 1998 season on the West Coast, and it was disastrous. They started 1–4. They were already three games behind the Orioles, and the season wasn’t even a week old, and
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_282" title="282" />
        the only question seemed to be if Joe Torre might make it as far as Bob Lemon had in 1982 (fourteen games) or as far as Berra had in 1985 (sixteen). Steinbrenner wasn’t bashful about planting that particular flag, either.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m worried our guys are reading their own press clippings,” Steinbrenner said. “You still have to go out on the field and do the job. Nobody’s going to hand anything to them. They haven’t won a thing yet.”</p>
      <p class="indent">At the time, the Yankees’ record stood at 0–1.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        They would recover fine, despite the fact that on April 13, at Yankee Stadium, a 350-pound expansion beam fell onto an empty seat—Section 22, Row 2, Seat 7—and obliterated the chair. It was hours before the stadium was set to open, so a catastrophe was averted, but while the Yankees’ owner had for years absorbed criticism and lampooning when he’d hinted—if not said outright—that his seventy-five-year-old ballpark was falling apart . . .
        <i>it was now literally falling apart</i>
        .
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And George Steinbrenner couldn’t possibly have been happier about that.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
