<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch5">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_43" title="43" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch5">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch5">Chapter 5</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>George told me he wanted me to stay, and he was sincere about it. He said, “I’m going to do whatever it takes to get the ballplayers that will make us great again and I want you to be the one who manages us when that happens.” Funny thing, too: That’s exactly what he did.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—ralph houk</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">T</span>
        he Yankees tried for the better part of four months to give George Steinbrenner’s maiden voyage smooth seas. From May 11 until the end of July they were the hottest team in baseball, climbing into first place on June 20 and staying there for the next forty-two days. Steinbrenner quickly learned the only thing that made him feel better than Yankees victories was when they paired with Mets losses, and that happened plenty across June and July, even as the fans kept flocking to Shea Stadium.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        On August 1, the Yankees woke up in first place, 60–48, a game better than the Orioles, two up on the Tigers, three and a half ahead of the Red Sox. The night before, at Fenway Park, they rallied from two runs down in the ninth inning against Boston, the key hit a two-run single by Bobby Murcer, the hundred-thousand-dollar bum, who added to his growing credentials to win the Most Valuable Player award and kept the Yankees alone in first place. That same night, in New York, the Mets lost 4–1 to the
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_44" title="44" />
        Pirates to fall a season-high thirteen games under .500, some ten and a half games out, dead last in the NL East.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        But it was even better for Yankees fans. Earlier that year, the Mets’ chairman of the board, M. Donald Grant, insisted that the job of Yogi Berra—the Mets’ manager who’d been a Yankees legend in his playing days, a man George Steinbrenner would come to know quite well—was safe despite the team’s struggles, “unless the fans tell me different.” Never shy about stirring the pot, the
        <i>New York Post</i>
        promptly conducted a poll from the back page of its newspaper:
        <span class="smallcaps">who should the mets ax?</span>
        Grant was greatly displeased that the fans overwhelmingly chose either himself or Mets GM Bob Scheffing as the man to face the music, with Berra a distant third.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">It surely amused Steinbrenner to no end to see a baseball team’s dirty laundry washed, spun and dried on the back page of a newspaper.</p>
      <p class="indent">But the Yankees lost an excruciating game on August 1, the Red Sox walking them off in the bottom of the ninth after Gene Michael failed to get a suicide squeeze bunt down in the top of the inning, leaving Thurman Munson out to dry, forcing Munson to try to steal home and barrel over Boston catcher Carlton Fisk. The resulting brawl marked a warning shot, of sorts, to a renewal of the dormant Yankees–Red Sox rivalry after a quarter century in repose, and also a grudge between Munson and Fisk that would fester for most of the next six years. The Yankees lost the next day, too, and the day after that in Detroit, falling out of first place. They lost all eight games on a road swing with games against Kansas City, Oakland and California. By the end of the month, they were stuck in fourth, nine and a half games back, and when they dropped a 7–3 game to Cleveland on September 11 in front of only 5,637 customers at Yankee Stadium, they dipped under .500, 72–73. And to make matters worse, the Mets—still in last place themselves on August 31—pulled off one of the greatest comebacks in baseball history in September, winning twenty of their final twenty-eight games to steal the NL East, then beating Cincinnati in the playoffs before finally losing Game 7 of the World Series to the defending-champion Oakland Athletics.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_45" title="45" />
        Somehow, even as the Yankees attempted to bring some dignity to the closing of their basilica of a ballpark, which would be boarded up for two years as it underwent its $24 million facelift (a price tag that would swell to $100 million by the time the final nail was hammered), they became even more of an afterthought. The final three games attracted 9,313, then 9,502 and, at last, a quasi-respectable 32,238, many of whom helped themselves to their seats at game’s end.
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          Thirty-five years later, the renovated version of Yankee Stadium closed. The 2008 Yankees drew 4,298,543 people, many of whom left the building weeping. That entire season, fewer than 125,000 seats went unsold across eighty-one games. When the doors shut, everything—down to the blades of grass—was put up for sale or auction. By contrast, in 1973 the boxing writer and sports iconoclast Bert Randolph Sugar called the Yankees’ offices the day after the season to see if he could stop by and bring home a few souvenirs. He was told he could have whatever he wanted. He rented a U-Haul, drove to the park and filled it with all manner of worthless junk that became priceless memorabilia as the years passed.
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner received another surprise that day: His manager, Ralph Houk, tired of the constant booing by even the smallest crowds as the year progressed, resigned. Steinbrenner protested; he admired Houk’s background (a Marine, he’d fought at Bastogne and the Battle of the Bulge, earned a Purple Heart and rose to the rank of major), and was generally a no-nonsense old-school type who, in many ways, Steinbrenner would try to hire again and again over the next twenty years. Houk couldn’t be swayed, insisting he needed a break (although, as Steinbrenner would soon discover, he’d already been approached by the Detroit Tigers to gauge his interest in managing there). A few days later, Lee MacPhail also left to take the job as president of the American League at year’s end. He’d gotten along fine with Steinbrenner (though that would change profoundly in MacPhail’s ten
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_46" title="46" />
        years as Steinbrenner’s de facto supervisor), and Gabe Paul had been true to his word, mostly staying out of MacPhail’s way.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But MacPhail could also see what was coming.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “George
        <i>listened</i>
        to Gabe,” he said in 1988. “He
        <i>tolerated</i>
        me.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">That small percentage of New York still paying attention to the Yankees as the Mets flew off to Cincinnati to begin the playoffs might have been surprised by all of this, but all across that 1973 season Steinbrenner had been laying bread crumbs that led directly to this moment, laying as a new organizational foundation his preferred infrastructure, one in which the power was mostly confined to the top. One that would stay in place, more or less, for the next thirty-seven years.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">the first to</span>
        go had been Michael Burke. As the weeks passed early in 1973 it finally dawned on Burke what had been evident to just about everyone observing the changeover. Burke believed this was his chance to finally run a baseball team, his way, top to bottom. And there were certain things he did very well. He had, by himself, made the Yankees a far more diverse and inclusive organization in his seven years there. He’d aggressively attempted to make the Yankee demographic younger. He’d done everything in his power to make Yankee Stadium look as attractive as possible in the days ticking down to its date with a wrecking ball, and he was ever mindful of the fact that despite present predicaments the Yankees had long been a bastion of class. And he’d done all he could to ensure that the Yankees would remain in New York City for decades to come. Those qualities had very nearly won Burke the job as baseball’s commissioner in 1969.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But the Yankees had also gone 489–475 on Burke’s watch, finished a collective 111 games out of first place and seen nearly 500,000 fans disappear from the last season before CBS took control. The Yankees lost an estimated $11 million under CBS—all while the Mets impossibly became world champions and a money-printing phenomenon. Burke graciously telegrammed Mets owner Joan Payson after the Mets rallied to the ’69 pennant:</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="bq">
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_47" title="47" />
          As a New Yorker I am ecstatic; as a baseball person I am immensely pleased and as a Yankee I consider suicide the easy option.
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">It was enough to make any true-believer Yankees fan ill.</p>
      <p class="indent">“He’s a good man,” Gabe Paul had told George Steinbrenner after he’d put the two of them together. “He’s a smart man. But he doesn’t know a thing about baseball.”</p>
      <p class="indent">By late April, Burke and Steinbrenner stopped sitting next to each other at the stadium, Steinbrenner keeping his dugout seats and Burke spending more and more time on the press level, where he would regularly tell his allies in the newspapers, “You wouldn’t believe what it’s like,” without ever having to identify who he was talking about. Increasingly, baseball matters were discussed among Steinbrenner, MacPhail and Paul that Burke would learn about in a memo a few hours later.</p>
      <p class="indent">On April 29, he stepped away. He did so with head high and a 5 percent stake in the team in his pocket, which he happily cashed in a few years later, after he’d had a similar run of high-profile PR wins and relentless on-court and on-ice miseries as the head of Madison Square Garden, overseeing its two teams, the NBA Knicks and NHL Rangers, to almost identical eras of disappointment.</p>
      <p class="indent">Paul, who never cared for Burke as a work colleague, raged a few years later, when Burke would take the occasional shot at Steinbrenner: “He should get on his knees and be grateful every day for George Steinbrenner. Ask him how much money he made thanks to his Yankees share.” (This would come before Paul’s own messy divorce with Steinbrenner.)</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Through much of this, Steinbrenner followed a blueprint far different from the one he’d rely on in most of his years as owner. The New York press, whom he’d so fervently courted in January, suddenly had a hard time cornering him at the ballpark, or getting him on the phone, or getting him to talk on the record when they did. Steinbrenner stayed mostly quiet through the Burke endgame. He’d stayed mum when it was leaked that his displeasure with the hair length of numbers 17, 1, 15 and 28 had actually
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_48" title="48" />
        progressed from a fit in the owner’s box on Opening Day to an official memo handed to Ralph Houk one day at Cleveland’s Municipal Stadium, with the insistence that it be read aloud to the players.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Neatness on a team is meaningful to me,” Houk told his players, serving as a vessel for Steinbrenner. “A sports performer carries a certain aura to it. His uniform should be neat and so should the player.”</p>
      <p class="indent">This didn’t sit well with some of the players. Ron Blomberg fumed, “If George Steinbrenner thinks he can mess with my individual rights, he can get himself a new first baseman.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Blomberg’s teammates had a laugh at that one. For one, Blomberg’s adventures at first base were the reason he became the first primarily designated hitter in history. For another, he wasn’t one of Steinbrenner’s targets; he wore number 12. He was also on a career-high tear that would have him hitting as high as .403 as late as June 28.</p>
      <p class="indent">“If you were hitting like me,” Graig Nettles needled him, “you’d have been the first number on the list.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The Yankees’ corps of beat writers were irritated when they arrived in Minnesota for a series with the Twins and picked up a copy of the
        <i>Minneapolis Tribune</i>
        on May 9, turning to the second page of sports and seeing that George Steinbrenner had given a lengthy interview to longtime
        <i>Tribune</i>
        columnist Sid Hartman. He said little of consequence, other than trying to throw Burke a bone to (unsuccessfully) help repair his shattered relationship with William Paley—“CBS made a good deal selling a losing proposition”—but Steinbrenner had not selected Hartman at random. Eighteen years earlier, as an assistant football coach at Northwestern, one of Steinbrenner’s duties had been to scout Big Ten rival Minnesota. Hartman befriended the unknown coach and remained a confidant. When Steinbrenner was ready to clear his throat there was no question who he’d talk to.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“His loyalty,” Hartman, still working at age ninety, would write the day after Steinbrenner died in 2010, “was fierce and knew no limit.”</p>
      <p class="indent">And once Steinbrenner opened the lid . . .</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Well, there was a better chance of pushing toothpaste back in the tube. And as would prove to be the case for a string of Yankees media relations
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_49" title="49" />
        directors almost as long as his list of managers and GMs, that could cause trouble. As it did on June 6 when Steinbrenner went on a television program in Tampa—the city to which he was increasingly moving both his home and business interests—and said the Yankees were about to trade Mike Kekich to Atlanta for Pat Dobson, a former twenty-game winner with the Orioles, a move that would make plenty of sense for a thousand reasons. Kekich, of course, was already miserable, abandoned by both his family and his “new” family, pitching to an unsightly 9.20 ERA.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“It’s time,” Kekich sighed, when told the news.</p>
      <p class="indent">Except it was wrong.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The Yankees would actually acquire Dobson the next day (and he’d be a good pitcher for the Yankees for a couple of years) but not for Kekich. They did finally have mercy on Kekich, shipping him to Cleveland on June 12. (And just to give a crazy story a crazier epilogue, a year later Fritz Peterson would also be sent away, and also to
        <i>Cleveland</i>
         . . . although by then Kekich was pitching in Japan.)
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Neither MacPhail nor Houk was terribly pleased by the boss’s new chattiness, even as Steinbrenner offered early hints of his willingness to write checks for talent—Dobson, fireballer Sam McDowell, former Giants slugger Jim Ray Hart, Athletics handyman Mike Hegan. Mayor Lindsay enjoyed hearing Steinbrenner put to rest once and for all a persistent rumor that the Yankees were still open to being wooed by New Orleans, which was completing a state-of-the-art facility to be called the Superdome. MacPhail had already agreed to play a few games there in 1975, a year in which the Yankees would share Shea Stadium with the Mets and thus were happy to entertain a couple of gates of sixty thousand plus (this never ultimately happened). Steinbrenner told Phil Pepe of the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        in late August, before visiting his reeling team in Oakland: “Leave New York? Never. I give you my solemn oath on that. I wouldn’t leave New York City if they shot me out of a cannon.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">(Less than twenty years later, when that oath wavered a bit as New Jersey began recruiting the Yankees again, many of those fans might’ve likely been fine revisiting the shoot-him-out-of-a-cannon idea. . . . )</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_50" title="50" />
        Houk and MacPhail, by this time, were already metaphorically bleeding out by a thousand paper cuts. The last straw for MacPhail came in Arlington, Texas, on August 17. The Yankees were already trailing the dreadful Rangers 5–0 in the eighth inning when Johnny Callison, a fifteen-year veteran who played infrequently, trundled out to right field. Callison misplayed a ball into a base hit and three more runs, and Steinbrenner—to Callison’s great misfortune, sitting in a seat by the Yankees’ dugout—was incensed.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">He would make a habit of doing what followed through the years, a standard in the Steinbrenner songbook. As soon as he could, he got MacPhail on the phone and shouted: “Get that son of a bitch Callison out of here! I will not have him on my team!”</p>
      <p class="indent">MacPhail released Callison before lunch the next day, and there was a part of him that wouldn’t have minded joining him.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        So both the manager
        <i>and</i>
        the general manager could barely wait for Hegan to fly out to end an 8–5 loss to the Tigers, the season, the fifty-year history of the original Yankee Stadium, and their professional relationships with the Yankees. In the twenty-five years between 1973 and 1998, Steinbrenner would change managers twenty-four times. He would change general managers fourteen times.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The only two who ever left of their own volition were Ralph Houk and Lee MacPhail.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">The Replacement For</span>
        MacPhail was obvious: Gabe Paul was the one who’d told George Steinbrenner about the Yankees possibly being for sale in the first place. He’d put Steinbrenner and Michael Burke together. He’d quit as Cleveland’s GM and divested his share of the team to move to New York and then had willingly stayed out of MacPhail’s way and quickly abrogated Burke. Now the Yankees would be in his hands.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner was poised to make a huge splash to succeed Houk.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Dick Williams scraped together a thirteen-year career for five different teams by agreeing to play anywhere he was needed and because he had an off-the-charts IQ for baseball. As a rookie manager in 1967, he’d
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_51" title="51" />
        taken over the annually underachieving Red Sox—losers of ninety games the year before—and catapulted them from ninth place in the American League all the way to the pennant, which they clinched on the last day of the season before a riotous atmosphere at Fenway Park. The Sox pushed the Cardinals to seven games before losing the World Series and Williams was hailed a baseball savant. But his fiery demeanor wore out in a hurry and the Sox dismissed him two years later. In 1971 he took over the Athletics, a franchise that hadn’t been to the postseason in forty years. The A’s won 101 games that first year, won ninety-three in 1972 along with the World Series, and were attempting to repeat in October 1973, when Williams gathered his players in the Shea Stadium visitor’s clubhouse on the off-day between Games 2 and 3.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">His message was simple.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Win or lose, at the end of this season, I’m done here.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The players were surprised, but not stunned, and understood why Williams would willingly choose to leave baseball’s first true dynasty since the end of the Yankees’ reign. Their paychecks were signed by the same man who signed Williams’s: Charles Oscar Finley, “Charlie-O” to much of the baseball world, known by a slew of far more unprintable names in the Oakland clubhouse. Finley had made his fortune in insurance, bought the Kansas City Athletics in 1960, threatened to relocate them to no fewer than a half dozen cities from the minute he took over, then did move them to Oakland before the 1968 season. He was a hands-on owner, a man with opinions. His had been the loudest voice promoting the DH; other ideas—such as different-colored baseballs and outfield fences the home team could adjust according to the batter—died deaths in owners meetings featuring nineteen rolling pairs of eyeballs. He chose a mule as a mascot, then named it after himself. Finley was also tightfisted with his players, openly combative, and if it sounds like a certain young owner might’ve been taking notes on all this, George Steinbrenner did say of Finley in 1976, “I find that man distasteful.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Finley’s latest stunt—and the final straw for Williams—was his attempt to fire A’s second baseman Mike Andrews after Andrews made
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_52" title="52" />
        two errors to help the Mets win Game 2 of the series. This infuriated the entire Oakland roster and angered Williams most of all. The commissioner quickly rebuked Finley’s maneuver, fined him for it, and in a fairly remarkable public referendum, the sold-out Shea Stadium crowd gave Andrews a standing ovation when he came to the plate to pinch-hit late in Game 4. By then, Williams had alerted his players and news had begun to leak that he already had his next gig lined up.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“The Yankees need to be kicked in the ass,” Reggie Jackson said. “He won’t take anything lying down.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner may have been a rookie owner but he also knew what tampering looked like, so he tried to downplay such talk. Besides, what Steinbrenner, Paul, Williams and only a few intermediaries knew was: He’d already been tampering, and for almost two months. Back in August, with Williams growing increasingly frustrated at his deteriorating relationship with Finley and Steinbrenner sickened by the losing meanderings of his own team, they’d made contact through a series of buffers. Williams knew Steinbrenner wanted him. Steinbrenner knew Williams wanted the Yankees.</p>
      <p class="indent">Of course, nobody could admit any of that yet.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “As successful as he’s been, he must be a good manager,” Steinbrenner said on the eve of Game 3. “
        <i>If</i>
        he were available I’m sure he’d be in demand rather quickly.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The A’s won the World Series. Williams formally resigned. And Steinbrenner waited a respectful twenty-four hours to reach out to Williams. But Finley knew baseball’s dark arts as well as anyone and smelled a rat. When Steinbrenner approached at an owners meeting two days after Game 7, he wasn’t subtle.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Should I let Williams go—which I have no intention of doing at present—they will certainly have to compensate me handsomely,” Finley announced.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner’s first instinct was to pull a similar maneuver with Ralph Houk, who was about to sign on to manage the Detroit Tigers despite having a year left on his Yankees contract. It didn’t take much to realize
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_53" title="53" />
        that Houk played the exact same game that Williams had. But making an issue of Houk would mean making an even bigger deal out of Williams. Steinbrenner let Houk go and simply figured he’d handle Finley the way he’d handled so many other rivals in the shipping industry: He’d outwait him, and outwit him, and ultimately pay him off. On December 13 Williams was officially introduced as the Yankees’ new manager. The next day’s newspapers featured Williams wearing the Yankees’ interlocking “NY” cap inside a deserted Shea Stadium. Williams would get $270,000 spread across three years, and full indemnity from the Yankees if Finley chose to sue. Paul, who knew how baseball worked from the inside, was still unsure of all this.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        But Steinbrenner assured him Commissioner Bowie Kuhn urged Steinbrenner to close a deal with Williams (he had not) and that Kuhn would leave the matter in the owners’ hands (he did not) and that Finley would settle for secondary prospects and a couple hundred thousand in cash as compensation (he most certainly would not). Instead, an angry Joe Cronin—in his final act before handing the office of American League president over to Lee MacPhail—summoned Steinbrenner and Finley to his office in Boston to address both Williams
        <i>and</i>
        Houk. Finley’s demands were high, and he was firm: a significant cash payment
        <i>and</i>
        any two of the Yankees’ three-highest prospects. Steinbrenner balked. Two days later, two teletypes arrived at the Yankees’ offices.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Houk was free to take the Tigers job.</p>
      <p class="indent">And Williams’s contract with the Yankees was voided.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner raged at Paul, his new baseball man, and at MacPhail, the outgoing one, who by now was counting down the days until January 1, when he’d start his new job: “
        <i>YOU BLEW THIS, BOTH OF YOU!</i>
        ” he bellowed. Paul’s face reddened with anger. MacPhail simply tried not to smile.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“George,” he said, not long after settling into his new office, “can be a little impetuous.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        He also would have to settle on a different manager: the mild-mannered former Pirates skipper, Bill Virdon. Steinbrenner would have to wait a few
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_54" title="54" />
        years before identifying another fire-and-brimstone specialist with whom to entrust his team, and when he did he’d keep him around, more or less, for the next fifteen years.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">By January 1 Steinbrenner, who was becoming more and more of a horseman in addition to his baseball interests, had broken his maiden as an owner. It had been quite an apprenticeship.</p>
      <p class="indent">He, and the Yankees, and baseball, and professional sports in North America, would never quite be the same ever again.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
