<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch3">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_27" title="27" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch3">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch3">Chapter 3</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>He shouted and blustered from a lack of fundamental self-assurance. From the very first, George had been bugged by my New York visibility and the amiable relationship I enjoyed with a variety of people.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—MICHAEL BURKE</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">J</span>
        anuary 3, 1973, had been Michael Burke’s show.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But January 10 was for George Steinbrenner. This was his official coming-out party. This is when he would address, at length, his vision for the New York Yankees, after one full week at the helm, “absent” though he may have been. This is when he would reveal the identities of his other partners, the men who’d filled in the rest of the $10 million around the $168,000 sum for which he himself had written a check. He rented out the 21 Club on West Fifty-Second Street, an old speakeasy still in its prime as a meeting place for New York’s beautiful people. He made sure to fill the room with as many sportswriters as he could, and many of the ones who weren’t assigned to cover Super Bowl VII in Los Angeles that week would indeed be on hand, and none would ever have to worry about such nettlesome troubles as an empty glass. He fed them chicken curry and beef bordelaise.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The 21 Club had long been an object of obsession for Steinbrenner, whose business interests in the late sixties and early seventies often
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_28" title="28" />
        brought him to Manhattan, a time and a town that the writer Dick Schaap had coined “Fun City.” The main room at 21 was reserved for big shots—actors, authors, politicians, judges, TV news anchors. Every time Steinbrenner visited New York, his secretary would call for a table; every time, he arrived to a table upstairs at four o’clock in the afternoon. The day after his opening press conference at Yankee Stadium, Howard Cosell invited him to lunch at 21, and when Steinbrenner arrived he discovered they’d be joined by Cosell’s
        <i>Monday Night Football</i>
        partner Frank Gifford and Pete Rozelle, commissioner of the NFL. They sat at the featured table in the main room.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Now he’d rented a whole room. The rest of his life,
        <i>George Steinbrenner</i>
        would be the main room at 21.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">As the writers polished off their lunch, refilled their rye and gin and bourbon, Steinbrenner walked to a dais at the front and made his elevator pitch.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It’s important to me and it’s important to all of us and it’s particularly important to New York and the Yankees that the group that gets behind the Yankees at this point has the wherewithal and the interest to get the kind of job done that the sportswriters, that the fans, that the city and the media in New York deserve.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Read what you will into the fact that the first and third targets of Steinbrenner’s presentation were the press, although the man
        <i>would</i>
        spend more time on the back pages of the city’s three warring tabloids—
        <i>Post</i>
        ,
        <i>Daily News</i>
        , later
        <i>New York Newsday</i>
        —than any other sporting figure across the next thirty-seven years, not once by accident. Someone asked Steinbrenner how long he expected it to be before he and his group would deliver the Yankees back to the sport’s apex, a place the Yankees hadn’t reached since 1962, when they’d won their twentieth championship in the previous thirty-nine years. Steinbrenner, in the moment, didn’t yet know the names of any of his players. If Bobby Murcer—the Yankees’ best, a two-time All-Star who’d hit thirty-three home runs, led the league with 102 runs scored, and finished fifth in the MVP vote for 1972—had walked into 21 at that moment, Steinbrenner wouldn’t have
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_29" title="29" />
        known who he was (though he would’ve had something to say about the length of his hair; Murcer would learn that lesson soon enough). No matter.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Three years!” Steinbrenner declared.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “We’re gonna hold you to that!” the
        <i>Post</i>
        ’s Maury Allen crowed from his seat, drawing laughter.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">One man who wasn’t in the mood for chuckles, merriment or any manner of hilarity at all was the man standing to Steinbrenner’s left on the dais. That was Michael Burke. It had taken a week, but already their roles had metaphorically shifted, symbolized by their places on the dais. But Burke could sense something else afoot.</p>
      <p class="indent">That morning, he and Steinbrenner had shared a car from the Carlyle hotel over to 21. At breakfast at the Carlyle, Burke met many of Steinbrenner’s moneymen for the first time. He expected most of them. One was a surprise.</p>
      <p class="indent">It was Gabe Paul.</p>
      <p class="indent">And until that morning, Paul hadn’t just been the general manager of the Cleveland Indians, but he owned a 10 percent stake of the team. Paul was a baseball lifer, whose first gig in professional ball had been as a batboy at age ten for his hometown Rochester (New York) Tribe of the International League. At twenty-seven, he got his first taste of the major leagues when he became the traveling secretary for the Cincinnati Reds, and he rose to serve nine years as the club’s general manager, from 1952 to 1960. He’d been the GM in Cleveland since 1961, and the next year bought into the team. He’d grown to know and like Burke from nearly a decade’s worth of baseball executive meetings, and he’d been friendly with Steinbrenner, a fervent local sportsman who, a few years earlier, had nearly bought the Indians from food magnate Vernon Stouffer. When that deal collapsed, Paul promised Steinbrenner he’d keep his ears to the ground, listening for hints if any other teams might come up for sale.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Gabe Paul was the mysterious “mutual friend” who’d brought Steinbrenner and Burke together. Burke already knew that Paul was likely to jump into the Yankees fray now, something of a finder’s fee for
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_30" title="30" />
        arranging the marriage. But this was the first time it dawned on him that his involvement was more than as a backroom dealmaker. That morning, Paul had resigned as Cleveland’s GM and divested himself of his owner’s share of the club. He cheerfully relayed those updates to Burke. And Burke suddenly sensed at once that Gabriel Howard Paul, sixty-three years old, a baseball man for fifty-three of them, wasn’t going to get involved in the Yankees simply to oversee Bat Day and Cap Day and Fan Appreciation Day.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Son of a bitch,” he muttered to himself.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">So it was</span>
        that Michael Burke—who’d hunted Nazis as a spy in World War II, then chased Communists as a spook at the start of the Cold War—learned the first bracing lesson of the week-old Steinbrenner Era, one that would replay itself time and again as the years flew by: No matter how many bosses, there is but one Boss. No matter how many partners, there was but one voice that would matter, and it would always belong to Steinbrenner. This would take a few months to play itself out. But Burke had expected to parlay the inside scoop Paley had given him months earlier—that the Yanks were going on the block and he’d have first crack at bagging that baseball elephant—into an arrangement where he would be the point man who would restore the Yankees to glory. He would be the one calling the shots. He’d be the savior riding into town on a white steed, and he would ride him at the front of the parade when he finally returned the Yankees to the Canyon of Heroes. Burke had trusted Paul when he said Steinbrenner was too busy building ships to care about baseball—and believed Paul when he hinted that he was also ready to leave the daily grind of running a ball club, happy to consult whenever his opinion was sought.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Burke tried. He pushed the tide off as long as he could, which is to say: about as long as a ramshackle lifeguard stand could against a real tide. By the time the car reached the 21 Club that day, he’d cornered Steinbrenner into a concession: He, Burke, was the one who would call the baseball shots. Paul would be there as an adviser. Steinbrenner knew just seeing Paul at the press conference would stir the muckraking instincts of the sportswriters;
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_31" title="31" />
        in the interest of peace he agreed. And Paul, knowing (as Burke by now surely knew, as well) that he had an open line of communication with Steinbrenner, nodded his head.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">A week earlier, Steinbrenner had been unambiguous when he’d declared flatly, “Mike will be in charge.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Now, with Paul in the room, someone asked if that was still the case.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Mike is the main guy, yes,” Steinbrenner reiterated.</p>
      <p class="indent">Burke, in what would prove to be his final gasp of and grasp for power, made sure to emphasize the point: “I don’t expect to have fifteen voices telling me what to do. Gabe Paul will join the Yankees in a major post within the context of not throwing out my present organization.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Then, categorically: “We have one general manager, Lee MacPhail.”</p>
      <p class="indent">And then, just to make sure everyone understood: “This is a nice way for Gabe Paul to close out his baseball career. He’s sixty-three and intends to retire to Florida in a couple of years. We’ll simply use his baseball knowledge as constructively as we can.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Paul smiled a cherubic smile. It almost camouflaged how much he was seething inside. But there would be a time and a place to settle such scores. This day, he was just one of many loyal foot soldiers whom Steinbrenner had assembled to pay the bill from CBS, a total of thirteen men, including such luminaries as Nelson Bunker Hunt (son of oil baron H. L. Hunt and brother of American Football League founder Lamar Hunt); John Z. DeLorean (vice president of General Motors and head of its Chevrolet division, and later the namesake for the DMC DeLorean that was prominently featured in the
        <i>Back to the Future</i>
        trilogy); Thomas Evans, a partner in the law firm Mudge, Rose, Guthrie and Alexander who’d served as the trial lawyer for another partner, Richard M. Nixon, before Nixon had left that job four years earlier for a higher profile one in Washington, DC; and James Nederlander, a theater owner and producer whose Broadway plays would win nine Tony Awards.
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          Not long after the deal with CBS was consummated, the network bought back from New York City two parking garages
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_32" title="32" />
          that neighbored Yankee Stadium for $1.2 million. So the total cost was really just $8.8 million. Steinbrenner, who’d burned Burke (and ended his friendship with Paley) over declaring the Yankees a “bargain,” probably undersold it; it was really a steal. Steinbrenner did keep that part of it private until long after Burke died in 1987 and Paley passed in 1990.
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">“I sat down and drew up a list of men I know to be doers, and these are the kind of men I wanted to bring into the New York picture,” Steinbrenner said. “When you pay ten million dollars and want to operate in a first-class fashion, I don’t care how wealthy you are, it’s an awful strain on one man. When you want to get the job done, you need people like this.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Added Burke: “The identity with New York and the Yankees is a visibility they wouldn’t get anywhere else.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Added Steinbrenner: “They’re not the kind who will stick their noses in, but when they’re asked, they’ll help.”</p>
      <p class="indent">In time, most of Steinbrenner’s partners would come to know that to jut those noses too close to the boss’s purview was to wind up needing them x-rayed and reset. But for now all the men in attendance (plus Hunt and Lester Crown, who were absent) seemed perfectly happy, content to have just purchased an extra-expensive season ticket to watch a fourth-place team. And since all knew Steinbrenner a lot more intimately than Burke did, they probably all chuckled quietly to themselves as Burke kept reminding the room who was in charge. Like Steinbrenner a week before, all insisted they would keep Yankees business at arm’s length other than Evans, whose law firm would now serve as the team’s general counsel; Nederlander went so far as to say, “I wouldn’t call Burke and tell him how to run the Yankees any more than I would expect him to call me and tell me how to run theaters.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Unlike Steinbrenner, they meant it.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Paul, publicly taking</span>
        a bullet on the issue of power, wound up facing an array of questions from the writers about the ethical
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_33" title="33" />
        dance he’d executed working for Cleveland while knowing he was leaving for the Yankees. After all, he and MacPhail had executed a huge deal on November 27, just forty-four days earlier, in which he’d traded Cleveland’s slugging, slick-fielding third baseman Graig Nettles along with backup catcher Jerry Moses for four talented but unproven Yankees prospects: Charlie Spikes, Rusty Torres, John Ellis and Jerry Kenney—a deal that would look even more suspicious in years to come since not one of the ex-Yankees ever made an All-Star team while Nettles made five as a Yankee.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m not concerned in the least about any suspicion that people may have,” Paul insisted. “When you are right, there is nothing to be afraid of. And I was right. That deal was a benefit for both clubs. The Yankees strengthened themselves, but the Indians made a hell of a trade.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The reviews were, universally, favorable, because New York’s sagging faction of Yankees fans was eager for a sign that reversal was even possible. It had been bad enough when the Yankees—at the end of a stretch when they’d won five straight American League pennants—had been passed in their own town in 1964 by the woeful Mets. The Yankees won forty-six more games than the 53–109 Mets but had drawn 425,000 fewer customers thanks in large part to the Mets fleeing Manhattan’s Polo Grounds—a building just as dated and dilapidated as Yankee Stadium—for Shea Stadium in Queens’ Flushing Meadows. But then in 1969 the Mets also surpassed the Yankees on the field, winning the World Series.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It was hard being a Yankees fan, man,” says Spike Lee, the noted filmmaker and even more notable New York sports fan who, despite growing up in the erstwhile National League stronghold of Brooklyn, had opted to go with the Yankees. “All the cool kids were all about the Mets. And for a while, before George, it was hard to argue the point.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        For now, though, George Steinbrenner was done. He flew home to Cleveland to tend to his shipping business. He vanished from the newspapers; over the next two months, his name wouldn’t appear even once in the
        <i>Post</i>
        , the
        <i>Times</i>
        , the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        or
        <i>Newsday</i>
        . For now, he was content to
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_34" title="34" />
        let the Knicks take much of the spotlight, as they built momentum toward another title run. He’d let mighty UCLA roam as kings of the sports page as the Bruins built an eighty-eight-game winning streak. He’d even let the Mets’ owner, Joan Whitney Payson, have her share of the limelight solo as she spoke about her championship aspirations for her team. For now, George Steinbrenner was content to loom in the shadows of Northeast Ohio.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">For now.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
