<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 20</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch20">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_231" title="231" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch20">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch20">Chapter 20</a>
      </h1>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="extt">
          <i>I think George would agree that fans have every right to express their point of view.</i>
        </p>
        <p class="exti">
          —
          <span class="smallcaps">Fay Vincent</span>
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="noindent">
        <span class="dropcap">I</span>
        t was an exhausting year for George Steinbrenner. His baseball team struggled in 1989, a fifth-place train wreck at 74–87 that exposed the franchise’s stunning dearth of major-league talent to go with a farm system ransacked by years of malpractice. His feud with Dave Winfield reached its zenith, Winfield suing and Steinbrenner countersuing. Winfield missed the whole season thanks to back surgery. If there was one high point it came early: January 19, the last full day of his presidency, Ronald Reagan granted Steinbrenner a pardon for his 1974 conviction.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">It was Christmas now, and with his family gathered at his Tampa home, grandchildren playing at his feet, the Boss could forget his troubles for a bit.</p>
      <p class="indent">Just after dinner, his eldest son summoned him.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You’d better see this,” Hank said.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        There, on the television, was an impossible bulletin interrupting the evening news: Billy Martin, sixty-one, five-time manager of the Yankees, had been pronounced dead at Wilson Memorial Hospital in Johnson City, New York, three miles outside Binghamton, about ten miles southwest of Fenton, where Billy and Jill Martin owned a farmhouse. After an afternoon of drinking Martin and his friend Bill Reedy drove back to the house,
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_232" title="232" />
        negotiating snowy, icy roads, missed a turn, lost control of Martin’s Ford pickup truck and landed in a ditch mere yards from Martin’s driveway. Reedy—who told authorities at the scene he was driving but later recanted, saying he was hoping to spare Martin legal trouble that would impede his career—suffered a broken hip, needed to be airlifted to a trauma center in Syracuse and survived.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Martin broke his neck. After a lifetime cheating death with endless bouts of saloon-aided misbehavior, what finally caught up to him was someone’s decision to drive after spending Christmas Day quaffing beer and vodka at a restaurant named Morey’s (many of Martin’s friends, as well as his son, believed Martin was likely driving; it was never proven conclusively, and Reedy was later found liable).</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner was left breathless.</p>
      <p class="indent">Hal Steinbrenner, George’s younger son and future heir, was home from Williams College for the Christmas holiday. He was stunned to see his father reduced to sobs, unable to believe the news, inconsolable even as Hal and Hank tried to offer comfort.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’d never seen my father react that way to anything before,” Hal would remember. “It was as if he’d lost a brother. For all the bad times they’d had together, Martin was an essential part of the fabric of my father’s professional life. And now he was gone.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Less than a week before, the Boss (dressed as Santa Claus), Martin and Yankees second baseman Steve Sax sang Christmas carols together before two thousand underprivileged kids at Tampa Performing Arts Center. Martin read
        <i>The Night Before Christmas</i>
        and joked with Steinbrenner that this particular Santa didn’t need much pillow to fill his red suit. Steinbrenner laughed and then gave Martin the only holiday present he really wanted: If the Yankees got off to a poor start in 1990—and Steinbrenner knew the odds were good the Yankees would be
        <i>dreadful</i>
        in 1990—by May 1, the latest, he’d be restored to power for a sixth time.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        To Martin—whose beloved mother had just died, leaving him in a profound depression—this wasn’t just welcome news; it was a life preserver. As Steinbrenner watched the reports Christmas night, he remembered
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_233" title="233" />
        Martin’s smile six days earlier. Now he was dead. Steinbrenner assured Jill he would take care of all the arrangements. As a personal friend of Cardinal John O’Connor’s, he convinced the cleric to allow the thrice-divorced Martin’s service to take place December 29 at St. Patrick’s Cathedral and arranged for him to be interred at Gate of Heaven Cemetery in Hawthorne, New York, not far from the final resting places of Yankee icon Babe Ruth and Yankee Doodle Dandy James Cagney.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“He gave us thrills and spills, ups and downs,” Father Edwin Broderick said, eulogizing Martin before an overflow of three thousand. “We pray his is a safe slide into home plate.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Outside the church stood a throng of thousands, so many faces that when one of the funeral guests, Richard M. Nixon, saw Billy Joe, Martin’s twenty-five-year-old son, weeping, he told him to lift his head.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I want you to see all the people who loved your father,” Nixon said.</p>
      <p class="indent">A bad year reached its sad nadir for George Steinbrenner. Then, just nine days after laying his forever foil to rest, Steinbrenner assured that 1990 would be just as calamitous. Back on December 17, 1986, he’d reluctantly taken a call from a man who’d been pestering him for months, who for years was an annoying bee buzzing the ears of Yankees beat writers, always seeking an audience with the Boss. Steinbrenner assiduously avoided him, but on December 17 he took the call.</p>
      <p class="indent">Into his life, Steinbrenner welcomed Howard Spira.</p>
      <p class="indent">For the next few years, Spira would regale Steinbrenner with a wealth of stories and tales about Dave Winfield, for whose foundation Spira had once worked. The Boss, of course, was also in the shame-Winfield business, with both feet. Now, in January 1990, Steinbrenner sat down and signed two checks—one for $30,500, one for $9,500, made payable to the man who would replace Billy Martin as Steinbrenner’s chief sparring partner for the foreseeable future.</p>
      <p class="indent">Not long after, when he thought he’d rid himself of the nuisance with this ransom of $40,000, he received another message.</p>
      <p class="indent">“He gave me the forty,” Howie Spira told Phil McNiff, Steinbrenner’s top security adviser. “I want another hundred and ten.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_234" title="234" />
        <span class="bold">The forty grand</span>
        was handed over on January 7, 1990.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Exactly one year and one day earlier, Dave Winfield filed his third lawsuit against Steinbrenner for withholding funds to his foundation, as Steinbrenner was contractually obliged to do. The complaint asked for $1 million, said Steinbrenner failed to make the payments in an effort to get Winfield to agree to a trade. Steinbrenner never fully believed the charity was competently run. He intended to fight back. He put every cent allegedly owed into an interest-bearing escrow account, pending a deeper look into the books.</p>
      <p class="indent">Two days later, Steinbrenner countersued. He charged Winfield, too, failed to make his full share of payments to the foundation, to which he was also contractually mandated, and asked the player to pay $380,000 to cover those costs.</p>
      <p class="indent">That was just grist for the lawyers.</p>
      <p class="indent">This was what caught everyone else’s attention:</p>
      <p class="indent">“Winfield has made large loans at usurious rates of interest (e.g., over 700 percent in one instance!) to an individual he knew was engaged in heavy gambling on the outcome of baseball games and other sporting events.”</p>
      <p class="indent">That individual was Howie Spira.</p>
      <p class="indent">Now the army of reporters who’d spent years begging Spira to stop calling at crazy hours of the night . . . well, suddenly they were scrambling to find Howie Spira’s phone number, and the address for his parents’ house in the Bronx, near Van Cortlandt Park.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Spira waited a long time for these fifteen minutes of fame (that would ultimately yield two and a half years inside federal penitentiaries in West Virginia, Texas and North Carolina). Spira, who’d worked for the Winfield Foundation as a gofer from 1981 to 1984, still had photographs of a canceled check for $15,000, made out to Spira and signed by Winfield. Spira said Winfield gave it to him to settle a gambling debt; Howie was
        <i>always</i>
        swimming in gambling losses.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        There was more. Back in 1981, during Winfield’s nightmarish
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_235" title="235" />
        1-for-22 World Series, Winfield’s rep, Al Frohman, hatched an idea and scribbled on a piece of paper:
        <i>N——, if you play tonight, you are going to be shot and killed right on the field</i>
        . Then he gave it to Spira and instructed him to mail it to Frohman or else Frohman would alert every wiseguy in New York to his whereabouts. Since Howie owed almost all of them, that could be hazardous to his health. Howie claimed he did that one gratis, dropping the fake death threat in the mail, then took the letter once Frohman plucked it out of his mailbox and passed it along to his friends in the media.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner took great delight in all of this. He’d been ransacked in the papers for years over the way he treated Winfield, and now, thanks to his new friend Howie Spira, he’d toppled Winfield from the sanctimonious high ground. He thanked Spira, made what were either promises of a cash windfall, a job and a place to live at Steinbrenner’s hotel in Tampa (that was Howie’s take) or the Boss’s eternal thanks and the promise of box seats at Yankees games whenever he needed them (that was George’s).</p>
      <p class="indent">
        In late January Mike Lupica, then the most influential sports columnist in the city, suggested in the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        that the men save themselves a lot of money and the Yankees a season of outright civil war by agreeing to binding arbitration. Steinbrenner, who already believed he’d won the PR battle, readily agreed. It took Winfield a few days, but he saw the wisdom of avoiding a ruinous court fight. It took arbiter Michael Armstrong more than eight months to sift through all the documents, to interview the relevant parties and, hardest of all, to keep any of this from leaking to the press. But on September 6, the matter was settled when Steinbrenner agreed to free up $600,000 sitting in escrow and Winfield agreed to make a delinquent $229,667 payment of his own, in addition to $30,000 “inappropriately expended by the foundation.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner could barely contain his glee: “It’s difficult for a man to admit he’s made mistakes, but David is doing that, and that makes him a bigger man in my eyes. I will be most happy to have him back with the Yankees next season.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Winfield wrapped his arm around a beaming Steinbrenner, his own
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_236" title="236" />
        fully bearded face brightened with a smile. The TV cameras whirled. The newspaper cameras clicked. Back at his apartment by Van Cortlandt Park, Howie Spira saw these two men he hated mugging for the cameras. He seethed, and he stewed, and soon he would call Steinbrenner, and call him again, and call his family, again and again, until the day the Feds came storming through the front door.
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Beating Winfield was</span>
        a rare win for Steinbrenner. The Boss hired Dallas Green to manage the Yankees in 1989, and for a short while was smitten—for a short while. Green was, in almost every way, Steinbrenner’s blueprint for a manager. He had a track record, winning the 1980 World Series with Philadelphia, the first-ever championship in that franchise’s ninety-eight-year existence. He was unafraid of millionaire ballplayers, seemed to relish publicly challenging his superstars: Mike Schmidt, Pete Rose and Steve Carlton. He was six-foot-five and by now a good 240 pounds, imposing as hell, big enough that you could almost fit two Billy Martins in his pinstripes. He’d enjoy a drink with his coaches after the game, but he was never going to wind up on the front page with a black eye or a missing tooth.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I think I bring something to the table that puts us over the hump,” Green said the day he was hired. “I intend to instill team discipline to get things done.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner marveled at the tight camp Green ran in Fort Lauderdale. He was especially delighted when he picked up a newspaper during the Yankees’ first western swing of the season and saw Green’s succinct description of the team: “We stink.”</p>
      <p class="indent">There was one problem.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Green was right. The Yankees
        <i>did</i>
        stink. Losing Winfield was a killer. In what would become a sad ritual from now on, Don Mattingly’s back began to bark. When it was obvious they would struggle, Steinbrenner sent Rickey Henderson back to Oakland. The pitching staff was a mess, the lineup worse. One exception was a twenty-one-year-old speedster the Yankees took as a flier in the ’88 draft who seemed destined for greatness as a
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_237" title="237" />
        football player. The first time Deion Sanders walked into Green’s spring training camp he asked for a single-digit number—“I always wear a low number,” he said, unaware that around the Yankees most of the single digits were already retired. He settled for 44, Reggie Jackson’s old number, which seemed exactly right.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I like the kid’s confidence,” Green said.</p>
      <p class="indent">There was little else to like, though, and soon even Steinbrenner got tired of hearing Green bitch about his players.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I think this team is better than the way we’re playing,” Steinbrenner said at last, in August, and the reporters who’d been around a while understood they’d better not make Jersey Shore plans the next few weeks. Steinbrenner knew Green would see that little shot and respond exactly as he did.</p>
      <p class="indent">“The statement that Manager George made about the game is a very logical second-guess,” Green said, replete with shit-eating grin, “and hindsight being twenty/twenty, that’s why managers go gray. It’s always easier to piss from above.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>Manager George</i>
        .
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“You had to give Dallas this,” Don Mattingly laughed. “He had officially run out of fucks to give.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner waited two weeks, then reached back to happier times by calling Bucky Dent up from Columbus.</p>
      <p class="indent">More and more, fans and commentators called on Steinbrenner to sell the team, but they had little idea the force they were up against. In 1982, while shopping the Yankees’ TV rights, Warner Communications head Steve Ross half jokingly asked Steinbrenner if he’d take $100 million for the team.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner just laughed.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Not long after
        <i>that</i>
        he took a call from a young New York millionaire with whom he’d grown acquainted, eager to buy a franchise, so he floated a figure for the Yankees.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“How about $150 million?” Donald J. Trump asked.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner said no. Trump bought the New Jersey Generals of the United States Football League instead.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_238" title="238" />
        The whole landscape of sports had become a louder and more wrathful space. In 1987, WFAN radio debuted, a twenty-four-hour haven for hot takes and all manner of sporting anguish. In 1989, the Yankees made an ill-fated decision to hold a Banner Day, and the results were predictably ugly, dozens of bedsheets sacrificed in the name of vulgar frustration, much of it aimed at Steinbrenner. On June 27, 1988, Mike Tyson knocked out Michael Spinks at Atlantic City’s Convention Hall, the most anticipated boxing match of the year. Introduced ringside to the overflow crowd, Steinbrenner was booed lustily. The fight itself lasted only ninety-one seconds; Steinbrenner’s greeting dragged at least twice as long.
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="extat">
          <span class="bold">INTERLUDE:</span>
          It was on July 21, 1988, when Steinbrenner would execute perhaps his most famous failed trade. We’ll fast-forward to 1996 and a
          <i>Seinfeld</i>
          episode entitled “The Caddy” to explain. We pick it up with George Costanza AWOL from his position as Yankees traveling secretary. Steinbrenner [voiced by Larry David] tells George’s parents the sad news.
        </p>
        <p class="exta3">
          <span class="bold">STEINBRENNER:</span>
          Well, he’d been logging some pretty heavy hours. First one in in the morning, last one to leave at night, that kid was a human dynamo. . . .
        </p>
        <p class="exta3">
          <span class="bold">FRANK:</span>
          What the hell did you trade Jay Buhner for?! He had thirty home runs, over a hundred RBIs last year; he’s got a rocket for an arm . . . YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT THE HELL YOU’RE DOING!
        </p>
        <p class="exta3">
          <span class="bold">STEINBRENNER:</span>
          Well, you know he was a good prospect, no question about it. But my baseball people loved Ken Phelps’s bat. They kept saying, “Ken Phelps! Ken Phelps!”
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent2">Soon it was clear the fans weren’t the only ones who were rankled.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Fay Vincent knew</span>
        George Steinbrenner long before he
        <i>knew</i>
        the man. Vincent graduated from Williams College in 1960, eight years after
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_239" title="239" />
        Steinbrenner. He’d watched Steinbrenner’s rise from a distance as Vincent built a successful career in law, then as the director of finance for the Securities and Exchange Commission, later as the chairman of Columbia Pictures and senior vice president at Coca-Cola. When his longtime friend Bart Giamatti succeeded Peter Ueberroth as baseball’s commissioner in 1989 Vincent joined as his deputy, and it was his sad duty to replace him when Giamatti died suddenly September 1, 1989. Now he saw, up close, Steinbrenner’s vast array of quirks and tics, and it appalled him the way Steinbrenner so often resorted to bullying and bluster.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        It’s easy to understand why Vincent might’ve cocked an eyebrow when he read the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        on the morning of Sunday, March 18. There, it was revealed that Howie Spira hadn’t just received a $40,000 payment from George Steinbrenner; he’d been smart enough (or mousy enough) to record the conversation, and dozens of others with Steinbrenner, his associates and his family over the next few weeks.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">On that fateful December 17, 1986, Spira began his day trying to reconcile with Dave Winfield, who’d spent the better part of two years hoping Spira would lose his number. Spira asked for a job. Winfield turned him down flat, and when Spira wouldn’t let it go, Winfield threatened: “Howard, I’m going to hang up on you in a minute.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Don’t bother!” Spira snapped, and slammed the phone.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then he dialed George Steinbrenner.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You should only know how much money they stole from you,” Spira said.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        He knew a lot more, and happily shared: the $15,000 check, and why Spira so desperately needed it; the fake death threat; Winfield’s less-than-type-A work ethic when it came to the foundation. Steinbrenner gobbled it all up and would soon use it to kneecap Winfield. Somewhere along the way, Spira believed Steinbrenner agreed to take care of him the rest of his life. If that conversation ever happened, Spira forgot to turn his tape recorder on. He changed course. He became a nuisance. He called Steinbrenner every day, and when the Boss finally realized he needed to
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_240" title="240" />
        stop taking those calls Spira moved on to his associates, his lawyers, his children . . . even his wife, Joan, to whom Howie said his life was in imminent danger thanks to his gambling debts.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I don’t understand why you keep bothering this house,” Joan Steinbrenner said on one recording. “I have nothing to do with anything in his life except his children. It couldn’t have been that bad, you’re still alive and walking.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Barely, ma’am,” Spira said.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Do you have a job? Do you work?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“No, ma’am. I was supposed to work for your husband.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“There are millions of people who are ‘supposed’ to work for my husband who don’t work for my husband. That happens with every big company.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Spira kept at it.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Howard,” Joan said, “I think you need to see a doctor, I really do.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“That’s not very nice,” Spira said. The conversation grew more heated.</p>
      <p class="indent">Spira said, “Why are you yelling at me? I didn’t do anything.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“You’re a young man,” Joan said. “Get out and work.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Then she hung up.</p>
      <p class="indent">By January—after Steinbrenner paid the forty large, after Spira demanded he make it a nice round one fifty, after he’d threatened Phil McNiff that he’d take his story to the papers, that he thought about suicide “every day” and when he did it the “blood will be on [Steinbrenner’s] hands”—Spira managed to get through to Steinbrenner one last time, begging for money.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m telling you: no more,” Steinbrenner said. “Don’t bother my people anymore.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Said Spira: “I’m forced to slit my throat, but before I do I’m going to make everything I’ve been through made public to the whole world. There’s nothing wrong with that, right?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Howard,” Steinbrenner snapped. “That’s extortion in its purest form!”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Six days after that friendly little chat, four FBI agents knocked on Spira’s door. They had warrants for all of Spira’s tapes, diaries, phone records, all correspondence with Steinbrenner. That’s how, a few months
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_241" title="241" />
        later, the tapes came into the possession of
        <i>Daily News</i>
        reporter Richard T. Pienciak.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">How Fay Vincent read all about it over his Sunday-morning coffee.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">It was bad</span>
        enough that Steinbrenner’s baseball empire was lying in state. The 1990 Yankees were destined to finish in last place for the first time since 1966, only the second time since 1912. They’d lose ninety-five games, the most in seventy-eight years, a roster that included Mel Hall—who terrorized young players (notably, and most egregiously, a shy rookie outfielder named Bernie Williams), who once brought a live tiger to the clubhouse, who lived (somewhat openly) with a teenaged girlfriend and who, by 2024, was fifteen years into a forty-five-year prison sentence for rape and sexual abuse. The Boss’s big free agent pickup was pitcher Pascual Perez, best known for getting lost on his way to the ballpark on a day he was pitching and also for dabbling in cocaine; he would suffer an arm injury and a drug relapse and would win a total of three games for the 1990 and 1991 Yankees before being thrown out of the game for good.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Before the season, at a dinner at 21 with Bucky Dent and the Yankees’ beat writers, Steinbrenner said this about his manager, somehow doing so without collapsing into hysterics: “Bucky Dent will be my manager all year.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The writers didn’t laugh, either, and didn’t even bother to write it down.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees were dreadful from day one, and Steinbrenner jettisoned Dent at Fenway Park—scene of his home run in the 1978 one-game playoff with the Red Sox, his greatest professional triumph. Tough room.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner elevated his manager at Columbus, Carl Harrison (Stump) Merrill; more important was a move later that day that would have longer-lasting impact: Steinbrenner promoted Buck Showalter, who’d been serving as Dent’s “eye in the sky” scout, to third base coach. For Showalter, who’d never earned even one cup of coffee in the Show, his first day working for Merrill was his first day wearing a major-league uniform.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner also rid himself at last of Winfield, who returned from his year off with a 1-for-29 spring and an 0-for-20 slump in April. He was
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_242" title="242" />
        finally shipped to the Angels for pitcher Mike Witt, a former All-Star who was clearly on the back nine of his career.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I was assailed, vilified, stabbed in the back and thrown off a cliff,” Winfield said on his way out. “Everything possible was done to attack my credibility and my career. And I survived. Steinbrenner said he always wins. Well, he didn’t beat me.”</p>
      <p class="indent">By then Fay Vincent had already begun to close in on Steinbrenner, his interest in Howie Spira’s story sparking as an inquiry and developing into a full-blown investigation spearheaded by John Dowd. A year earlier, Dowd lent his name to the report that effectively kicked Pete Rose out of baseball.</p>
      <p class="indent">Vincent announced he would begin a hearing to determine consequences for Steinbrenner’s Spira association on July 5—a day after the Boss’s sixtieth birthday. That bulletin was greeted with great delight by a preponderance of Yankees fans.</p>
      <p class="indent">But as the day drew close, a lot of odd things happened. A week before, Steinbrenner’s lawyers asked to see a copy of Dowd’s report, which he’d already submitted to Vincent. It was a simple case of due process, allowing Steinbrenner to see the case built against him. But Vincent, quite adamantly, refused to do so. “I don’t think there’s any particular purpose to that.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Well
        <i>that</i>
        didn’t smell quite right.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Also, during Dowd’s investigation, Steinbrenner spent several days providing testimony, and the exchange was feverishly transcribed by a court stenographer named Philip C. Rizzuti. But when that transcript was delivered to Steinbrenner’s lawyers, entire passages were deleted or altered. One of Steinbrenner’s attorneys, Bob Gold, contacted Rizzuti, who was shaken, and admitted: “Dowd made me do it. I can’t discuss it.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Well,
        <i>that</i>
        was a little off, too.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Was Vincent putting his thumb on the scale of a baseball justice system over which he presided like a Star Chamber? Vincent long insisted that wasn’t the case.</p>
      <p class="indent">When Steinbrenner met with Vincent, the commissioner had a simple question.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_243" title="243" />
        “Did anyone say to you, ‘George, suppose this guy takes the money and pays off gambling debts? You are now an owner in baseball financing a gambler.’”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Well, I didn’t,” Steinbrenner insisted. “I never thought of that. Nobody ever mentioned that to me, Commissioner.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I am saying to you: Why didn’t you call
        <i>me</i>
        , get help from other people, before you did something which your advisers told you not to do?”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner was flustered. He asked Vincent why he hadn’t taken a similar leap with Dave Winfield about bankrolling a gambler. He let slip that part of the reason he paid Spira off wasn’t just to protect his own interests but also Lou Piniella “and his sports betting habits.” (Piniella, known to place a wager or two at a racetrack, admitted that freely, but insisted he had never even met a bookmaker in person, let alone engaged with one.)</p>
      <p class="indent">Vincent shook Steinbrenner and knew it. But Steinbrenner’s lawyers figured they could blunt the damage by calling witnesses on their own behalf.</p>
      <p class="indent">But Vincent decided zero of Steinbrenner’s witnesses were relevant. One more time, the commissioner seemed amused at the notion of due process.</p>
      <p class="indent">In time Vincent’s power play would be exposed, and he would suffer the consequences. For now, he retreated to his summer home on Cape Cod to deliberate, and Steinbrenner began to realize Vincent was only doing this so he couldn’t be accused of having his mind already made up. Which it was.</p>
      <p class="indent">It came as little surprise to anyone in the commissioner’s office at 350 Park Avenue when Vincent told Steinbrenner that he was prepared to suspend him from baseball for two years. The commissioner would have loved nothing more than to boot him out permanently, but he knew if he did someone, somewhere, would discover that Dowd’s investigation—and his own jurisprudence—hadn’t exactly been models of fairness. He actually felt Steinbrenner would be getting off light with two years.</p>
      <p class="indent">He was stunned when Steinbrenner refused the deal.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I can’t have the word ‘suspension’ attached to any of this,” he said.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_244" title="244" />
        Vincent was stupefied, no more than Steinbrenner’s own lawyers, who understood that behind door number two was Vincent’s only other option, a place on baseball’s ineligible list. In case there was any doubt what that meant, Vincent quickly laid it to rest.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner said, “You know, Fay: this ineligible-list stuff—how long am I on it?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“George,” Vincent said, “try forever.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        He was opting for a lifetime ban. Steinbrenner had waited fourteen long years to get the stain of the Watergate conviction bleached off his record. But he had just been granted a place in the hierarchy of the US Olympic Committee (USOC) and feared a second suspension from baseball might imperil that. The sides negotiated eleven hours. Vincent couldn’t believe his good fortune: Steinbrenner was
        <i>volunteering</i>
        for the lifetime ban—which, as a bonus, forbade anyone on the ineligible list to ever sue baseball. Steinbrenner’s lawyers filibustered, but by eight o’clock—three hours after the Vincent-imposed deadline—Vincent snapped closed his briefcase and headed for the elevator. He wanted to alert the press of his decision. One of the Boss’s lawyers, Paul Curran, said, “See you in court.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“He’s disruptive, corruptive, corrosive, boorish and embarrassing,” Vincent would write of Steinbrenner years later, in an unpublished memoir. “If George wanted out, I was happy to show him the door.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He stepped onto the elevator. As the doors closed, an arm shot in, nudging them open. It was Steve Kaufman, Steinbrenner’s other lawyer.</p>
      <p class="indent">“George will sign,” Kaufman said.</p>
      <p class="indent">And he did.</p>
      <p class="indent">Just before 8:30 p.m. on July 30, 1990, Vincent stepped before a swarm of reporters at the Helmsley Palace Hotel on Madison Avenue, not far from MLB headquarters. When he announced “George Steinbrenner . . . has agreed to be treated as if he has been placed on the permanent ineligible list,” an audible gasp rose from even this seasoned band of media. He cited the commissioner’s always-helpful “best interests of baseball” powers.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “This sad episode is now over,” Vincent said. He couldn’t resist spiking the football: “My decision in this case and this result will serve, I trust, to
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_245" title="245" />
        vindicate once again the important responsibility of the commissioner to preserve and protect the game.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Within seconds, word of Steinbrenner’s ban was on the radio, and the news wires, and local TV programming in New York was interrupted. It didn’t take long for the news to reach Yankee Stadium, where 24,037 people were gathered to watch the Yankees play the Tigers. A buzz began to build, which became loud cheering and finally became a roar—or as much a roar as a half-filled stadium in the middle of a lost summer can generate. Later, in the seventh-inning stretch, after singing “Take Me Out to the Ball Game,” the crowd updated its longtime mantra and let loose; those who were there swore it was loud enough to be heard at the Helmsley Palace Hotel.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“NO MORE GEORGE!”</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“NO MORE GEORGE!!”</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“NO! MORE! GEORGE!!!”</i>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
