<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 30</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch30">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_343" title="343" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch30">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch30">Chapter 30</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>I’ve got ears. I know what’s expected of me. We listen to our fans.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—Hal Steinbrenner</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">I</span>
        t is the oddest job in professional sports, in so many ways. It has its perks, of course. When you are the owner of a franchise, you oversee a public trust. The team itself may be—and now, in almost every case, is—worth billions of dollars. When times are good, there is probably no grander job on earth than being the person who signs the checks of a freshly crowned champion.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">When things aren’t so good?</p>
      <p class="indent">That’s the tricky part. If an athlete fails, repeatedly, he faces ultimate consequence: traded, released, demoted. When a manager, a general manager, a coach loses over a period of time, or simply fails to meet expectations? He gets fired. His contact isn’t renewed. The pressure becomes so great they simply resign. There is turnover everywhere in sports. There is constant churn.</p>
      <p class="indent">Except in one place: inside an owner’s box.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I kid with people and sometimes they take this the wrong way,” James Dolan, who owns both the NBA’s New York Knicks and the NHL’s New York Rangers, told me one day in 2013. “Only one person can fire me, and
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_344" title="344" />
        you’re looking at him. And I don’t expect to fire myself anytime soon. So we might as well get used to each other.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Theoretically, fans understand this. Logically, they get it.</p>
      <p class="indent">But there is very little logic attached to being a sports fan. There is very little reason applied to the visceral reactions that watching, and caring about, and fervently following teams can yield. And so, quite often, the frustration bubbles to the point that groundswells are formed to convince owners to sell the team. There is little point to this, mind you. James Dolan was the one who said it. But all owners feel the exact same way.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I think enough people have seen how I react to games we win and games we lose to know one thing,” says John Mara, who has been a 50 percent owner of the New York Giants of the NFL since 2005, when his father, Wellington, passed away at age eighty-nine. “They have to see that I live and die with these games. I take every one of them
        <i>personally</i>
        . I go nights at a time without sleep during the football season because I can’t get the tough losses out of my mind. I
        <i>suffer</i>
        . Say anything else you want about me, but I care every bit as much as the most rabid fan.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        This didn’t shield Mara from battalions of angry Giants fans who, during an increasingly barren era of Giants history in the 2020s, began to turn on him. It was, in fact, the passion to which he refers that caused him, with HBO’s
        <i>Hard Knocks</i>
        cameras rolling, to tell his GM, Joe Schoen, in the spring of 2024, that if the Giants lost star running back Saquon Barkley to the rival Eagles he was going to have many sleepless nights; that was played and replayed on an endless reel of mockery when Barkley not only signed with the Eagles but immediately led them to the Super Bowl championship. Yet even this owner who freely shows his devotions in public, who has, quite literally, been a Giants fan from the cradle, stood accused of simply not caring enough when another lost Giants season was shoved into a wood chipper.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Such will be the likely fate of Hal Steinbrenner for as long as he is the man on top of the Yankees’ organizational flowchart. Such will likely be the fate of any Yankees owner, within the Steinbrenner family or without, for as long as there are still fans old enough to remember George Steinbrenner’s
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_345" title="345" />
        reign—even if most of those recollections, as the years pass, become a bit more detached from reality.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“We look at this as a blessing,” Hal said of the caretaking role he and his family have with the Yankees, which he calls a profound civic trust. “It was something given to us, not necessarily something we earned. And that’s the way I approach every day with my job. We hold a great deal of responsibility to ourselves and to our own actions, and we take none of it for granted. We understand the history and the tradition of the team, but it’s also a history and tradition of fifty years of my family and now we’ve got the third generation involved, numerous of George’s grandkids. It’s going to carry on the way he would want.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Hank Steinbrenner, who inherited the more colorful strands of his father’s DNA, died after a long illness on April 14, 2020. He was remembered fondly, a kind soul who’d done well in the other arms of the Steinbrenner family business, whose brief, blusterous time as the Yankees’ chief unofficial spokesman provided a welcome comic relief to what can sometimes be the wildly overserious world of Yankees baseball.</p>
      <p class="indent">But Hank always agreed: Hal was clearly the right choice to lead the Yankees once the Boss was ready to pass the baton. The value of the team has quadrupled on his watch. With the exception of an 82–80 blip in 2023, the Yankees have fielded contending teams every season since 2017. And while Steinbrenner continues to believe that annual payrolls north of $300 million are unsustainable, the Yankees cracked that barrier in 2024, and in 2025, and did so without apology, and will likely do so from now on.</p>
      <p class="indent">That 2024 season culminated on October 19, Game 5 of the American League Championship Series in Cleveland. The Yankees spotted the Guardians an early 2–0 lead, rallied to tie at 2–2 and in the top of the tenth inning put two runners on with two outs. Juan Soto battled Hunter Gaddis through six pitches and faced a 1-and-2 count, and on the seventh pitch launched a ball that tried to climb over the sky before settling into the stands at Progressive Field. The Yankees won, 5–2, clinching their first World Series berth in fifteen years.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Afterward, Hal Steinbrenner was jubilant—although his was a different
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_346" title="346" />
        manifestation of jubilance than his father would’ve displayed when he was fifty-four years old. Meredith Marakovits, the sideline reporter for the YES Network, interviewed Hal on the field immediately after the clinching, and while his players were celebrating madly just steps away, Hal remained fairly stoic. He is who he is, and has never tried to be otherwise.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Listen, that was surreal on a different level than what I’ve experienced in fifteen years since the last pennant we won,” he said a few months later. “I’m in New York, I’m there every home stand; I’m down in the clubhouse a lot and I observe what’s going on. I have a good idea of how much work they put in throughout the course of a year. And I was just excited for them. It’s the culmination of a long season. You saw that. You saw it in the eyes of everybody else involved, including my sisters and Cashman, and it was.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He laughed.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It was a very good night.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Across the next two weeks, though, the Yankees fell in five to the Dodgers in the World Series. They were five hard-fought games, but the Yankees could win only one of them—and they permitted decisive Game 5 to turn during an ugly fifth inning in which they allowed five unearned runs—so much of the good feeling evaporated quickly after that.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        It didn’t help that it was the Dodgers who’d humbled the Yankees, who’d brought them to their knees on the vast October stage. From the moment they first tangled in a World Series in 1941, the Dodgers and the Yankees have been the sport’s two most successful franchises, on the baseball field and in the bank coffers. Walter O’Malley was roundly vilified for moving the team from Brooklyn to Los Angeles in 1958, but he’d struck gold in California. By 2024 the team was owned by the Guggenheim Baseball Management consortium, and they and the Yankees were at their usual perch atop the list of MLB’s mightiest moneymakers. The Yankees generated $679 million in revenue in ’24, the Dodgers $549 million; the Dodgers’ operating income was $26 million, the Yankees $2.1 million. Both teams spent a lot—a
        <i>lot</i>
        —but still landed in the black.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        But it was the Dodgers who’d begun to land most of the big-name free
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_347" title="347" />
        agents, notably the Japanese triumvirate of Shohei Ohtani (who won the MVP in 2024), Yoshinobu Yamamoto and Roki Sasaki.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Then Juan Soto officially filed for free agency.</p>
      <p class="indent">And another challenger to the Yankees’ decades-long status as the team with the most financial might in professional sports was officially heard from.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">In the old</span>
        days, there would have been a predictable rhythm to how the next few weeks played out, culminating with the Mets—
        <i>the Mets!</i>
        —prying Soto away from the Yankees with a fifteen-year, $765 million deal that was finalized on December 11, 2024. The Yankees made a competitive offer—one more year, $5 million less—but Soto opted for the richer deal that could exceed $800 million by the time it’s done.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">For the Mets were now owned by Steve Cohen, whose hedge fund company, Point72, had yielded him a personal fortune of more than $14 billion by the time he bought the Mets from the Wilpon family for $2.4 billion in the fall of 2020. Four years later he’d already tasted massive failure (his 2023 team had the richest payroll ever but lost eighty-seven games and he sold off many of his richest assets at the trade deadline) and sublime success (in 2024 the Mets reached the NL Championship Series and actually took one more game off the Dodgers than the Yankees would a round later). Not insignificantly his personal wealth had grown by 50 percent, to $21 billion. He was determined to take Soto away from the Yankees, regardless of cost. And did.</p>
      <p class="indent">In the old days, George Steinbrenner would have unleashed holy hell on the city’s back pages—ripping Soto; ripping his agent, Scott Boras; ripping the Mets. And dependent on which era of his reign we’re talking about, he’d have sought immediate retribution either with a series of visceral overpays in free agency or some splashy trades.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        But in the old days, Steinbrenner
        <i>was</i>
        Cohen, a lone wolf, unapologetic that he sat on a pile of riches no other team in the sport could fathom. Nobody was going to hold a telethon for the Yankees as 2024 clicked to 2025, but the facts were they were now competing against the sport’s single
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_348" title="348" />
        richest man in their own market
        <i>and</i>
        a conglomerate with bottomless pockets on the other coast in the nation’s number two market (with Blue Jays CEO Edward Rogers III and his $11.5 billion in assets lurking in Toronto and also promising to start spending more).
      </p>
      <p class="indent">It went differently this time, mostly because it had to. Spending for the sake of spending would be folly. Across the next few weeks the Yankees quietly but methodically redistributed the funds that had been earmarked for Soto elsewhere: to Milwaukee’s fine closer, Devin Williams; to the ex-Braves ace Max Fried; to a pair of former MVPs in Cody Bellinger (to play center, allowing Aaron Judge to replace Soto in right) and Paul Goldschmidt (to play first). By the time Cashman was done acquiring, and Steinbrenner was done approving, they managed to quell much of the anger that had boiled in the wake of the Soto defection. Rather than do as his father had done in past generations—offer ready-fire-aim contracts to the likes of Jack Clark, Jacoby Ellsbury, Kevin Brown and Dave Collins that wound up being yearslong millstones—Hal tried to be reasonable while also keeping his checkbook open for players who made sense in overall roster construction.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        And if you didn’t already know Hal Steinbrenner was the Yankees’ managing general partner, you might not have known that Steinbrenner was the Yankees’ managing general partner. He happily ceded the back pages to his players. If he heard any strand of the usual mantra—
        <i>If only George were still in charge</i>
        —he still refused to acknowledge them.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“First of all, I’ve been doing this for a long time now, so I guess I’m immune to a lot of that,” Hal said. “But the reality is we are two very different people. I’ve tried to make that clear from day one. I’m less of a shoot-from-the-hip kind of person. These types of decisions are big decisions, and a lot of factors need to be considered. So I don’t make any of them sporadically or quickly. And you know what? Maybe that’s not a good thing sometimes, but that is who I am and it’s going to be hard to change that.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Truth be told, father and son had two very different jobs, too.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        In George’s time, it became something of an inside joke when he’d have to make a cash call of his partners because, say, a few more dollars had to
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_349" title="349" />
        be shaken loose in order to close a deal with Reggie Jackson. Dividends? Even as late as 2003, Steinbrenner made light of the occasional complaint from the odd partner about the dearth of dividends he’d seen over the years.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“What I tell them,” the old man said with a laugh, “is that’s the cost of getting really good seats to Yankees games.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Still, when George assembled the 1977 Yankees—instantly dubbed “the Best Team Money Could Buy”—the total operating budget, players included, was around $4 million. Even factoring in inflation, that’s around $20.7 million, or approximately what the Yankees will pay Aaron Judge through the end of July 2026. When you’re talking about offering one player $765 million—a losing bid at that—these are entirely different conversations Hal is having with
        <i>his</i>
        partners.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        It is a different world, a different time, a different
        <i>sport</i>
        .
        <i>Forbes</i>
        magazine’s most recent valuation of the Yankees was $7.1 billion, meaning the Steinbrenners’ share, at around 70 percent, is a cool $4.97 billion. And growing. But even under George, while it would be wrong to call the Yankees a mom-and-pop shop, it was certainly a simpler corporate structure. Across most of the Boss’s tenure, the Yankees were just that: a baseball team. The most successful baseball team, the richest baseball team, but a baseball team all the same. Now, the bundle under the umbrella of the Yankees’ hat-and-a-bat logo includes 25 percent of YES Network, 20 percent of NYCFC of Major League Soccer, a minority stake in Legends Hospitality (which the Yankees cofounded in 2008 alongside that other great monolith of American sport, the NFL’s Dallas Cowboys) and a 10 percent share of the Italian soccer club AC Milan.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Hal operates baseball’s version of Apple, while his father ran an apple cart.</p>
      <p class="indent">Relatively speaking, of course.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “Look, we have great partners, some of whom have been with us since the seventies, and I’ve had few problems with any of them,” Hal said. “They do understand coming in because it’s explained to them that we put money into the payroll to try to field a championship caliber team every year. We don’t do distributions. That’s not the kind of partnership we are and if we
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_350" title="350" />
        continue to do what we’ve been doing for years and continue to succeed, the value, the value of what you put in will increase every year. It’s not about getting a check every quarter because that’s not going to happen.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Of course, these are the Yankees, and so they encounter some unique issues. In the spring of 2025, for instance, Hal Steinbrenner sent shock waves through much of his fan base. Not because of a trade. Not because of a firing. Not because he’d engaged with, say, Aaron Judge in a back-page war of words.</p>
      <p class="indent">Because of hair.</p>
      <p class="indent">Beards, specifically.</p>
      <p class="indent">You’ll recall that one of George Steinbrenner’s first controversies as owner in 1973 involved identifying and, in essence, publicly shaming some of his players—including two, Bobby Murcer and Gene Michael, with whom he would become close friends—for their long hair. Grooming was a big deal to the Boss. Hair couldn’t drift past the ears. Mustaches were allowed but that was it: no goatees; no beards. He ignored the rule once—quietly allowing a petulant Thurman Munson an eleven-day growth in 1977 before Munson finally grew tired of the look. He waived the rule once—permitting Jack McDowell to retain his goatee—and when McDowell’s brief stay with the Yankees in 1995 went sideways (highlighted by him flipping the finger to a booing Yankee Stadium) that was it.</p>
      <p class="indent">But on February 21, 2025, Hal altered that policy, after years of quiet grumbling among players forced to shave their beards after being acquired by the Yankees, and after consulting some present and former Yankees, some of whom believed the policy might hinder recruitment of future players.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Ultimately the final decision rests with me, and after great consideration, we will be amending our expectations to allow our players and uniformed personnel to have well-groomed beards moving forward,” Hal announced.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        A few weeks earlier, Hal had told me: “We know that everything we do is a little extra enhanced because we’re the Yankees. We demand a lot of our players, and our fans demand a lot out of us. There are a lot of traditions
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_351" title="351" />
        people care a lot about. We respect that. But we also know we live in the modern world. It’s a challenging balancing act.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        And it will stay that way for a while. More and more Steinbrenner grandchildren have joined the Yankees in recent years. None has been anointed as Hal’s successor yet—he is, after all, just fifty-five years old; at fifty-five George was barely a third of the way into his reign, although Steve Swindal Jr., son of Jennifer and Steve Sr.—himself once an heir apparent to the Boss’ office—has been cited as a likely candidate. And when Swindal talked to Joel Sherman of the
        <i>Post</i>
        in spring training 2024, it was obvious that he’d long listened to his uncle and taken notes.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Hopefully, Hal’s not going anywhere for a long time because I think he’s really good at this. And I don’t think he gets the credit he deserves because he’s not as outspoken as my grandfather was,” Swindal said. “What I know is that we’ve got a bunch of us in my generation. We want to tackle this thing [in supporting roles] right now and provide value to get wins now.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Not a bad legacy at all, I’d say,” Hal Steinbrenner said.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steve Swindal Jr. and the others of his generation of Steinbrenner will find that out soon enough, and will reap the benefits of a baseball dynasty built and crafted by their grandfather, sustained and maintained by their uncle. They will also learn the ongoing truth that breathes forever inside the corridors of the House of Steinbrenner: ninety-four wins and a playoff series victory over the detested Red Sox—which the Yankees accomplished in 2025—may be good enough for most of the twenty-nine other clubs in Major League Baseball.</p>
      <p class="indent">In New York—specifically the Bronx—it makes a lot of people wistful for a time when the Boss still ruled, and the Boss still roared.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
