<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Postscript</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="backmatter">
    <section epub:type="backmatter" aria-labelledby="pst">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_352" title="352" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="fmbm_head" id="pst">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rpst">Postscript</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>The Hall of Fame? No, son, I don’t belong in the Hall of Fame. The Hall of Fame is for the players. It’s the players that make this such a great game. If it were up to me I’d disallow anyone for the Hall of Fame who wore a tie to work at the ballpark instead of a full uniform. And you can start that rule with me. It’d be foolish to put me in there.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—GEORGE STEINBRENNER, 2003</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">T</span>
        here was a long while when I agreed with the Boss on that one. That quote was the last part of the telephone conversation I detailed at the start of this book, the one that woke me with a start in my hotel room in San Diego. There was enough time between his not-quite-permanent ban from baseball in 1990, and the Yankees had by then added four championships, and so the idea of Steinbrenner earning admission to the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, New York, started to gain a little traction.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">When I asked about it, he actually laughed.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        While I didn’t tell him this, the whole idea once seemed pretty laughable to me, too. For years the notion of George Steinbrenner earning a spot in the Hall of Fame’s Plaque Gallery—the sport’s most sacred
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_353" title="353" />
        space—sounded like some kind of elaborate practical joke. What was it that Groucho Marx said? “I don’t care to belong to any club that will have me.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And Steinbrenner—at least on the record—seemed to agree with Groucho.</p>
      <p class="indent">Still, for years I’ve believed, and written, that Pete Rose deserves to at least be put up for consideration for the Hall and, if elected, the sins he committed against the game should be included on his plaque, along with noting he’d been barred for years because of those transgressions, notably betting on Cincinnati Reds games when he was the Reds’ manager from 1985 to 1989. That feels like an equitable carriage of justice to me. I actually got to ask Rose one time if that would be an acceptable condition to his getting in the Hall, and Rose didn’t even pause before saying “Fuck, yeah!” (Commissioner Rob Manfred removed Rose from baseball’s permanently ineligible list in May 2025, paving the way for him to be considered for the Hall.)</p>
      <p class="indent">And here’s the thing: If I’m going to grant Pete Rose an olive branch like that, I must do the same for George Steinbrenner.</p>
      <p class="indent">Even if it’s on his permanent record that he was twice suspended from the game—once for a conviction on illegal campaign contributions, once for hiring a small-time hustler to try to blackmail his best player. Even if he was too often bombastic, and bellicose, and a bully, to his own ballplayers and his office employees and fellow owners and league presidents and commissioners. Even if there were too many years when he engaged in self-sabotage, “George-ing” many teams good enough to win pennants.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        I’d never been quite sure how the Hall can simply ignore this. Look, for most fans, the lasting memory of Steinbrenner is a cuddly old curmudgeon who’d break Joe Torre’s balls a little and cry a lot when his team won big games. The folks entrusted with casting these votes are supposed to remember the whole George—the fulsome George, the flighty George, the George who could be so publicly cruel to his employees. And while it would be wrong to minimize his impact on turning the Yankees back into the Yankees—
        <i>twice</i>
        —it is also important to note that those eras of prosperity were mostly done while he was absent. Twice. The spirit of the
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_354" title="354" />
        “Steinbrenner” character invented by Larry David is that the Yankees were often good in spite of the Boss. There’s an element of truth to that, too.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And, yes, he got thrown out of baseball twice.</p>
      <p class="indent">But in the same way those transgressions shouldn’t be ignored, neither should it be forgotten that Steinbrenner, in his day, a day that lasted for thirty-seven years and seven months, was the quintessential sports owner in New York, in Major League Baseball—and, probably, the world.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees he bought (with so very little of his own money) in 1973 were a mess: They’d totally ceded the town to the Mets; they played in a crumbling ballpark. There was talk of them moving to New Orleans and, worse, there was little public outrage about the possibility. There’s a reason CBS took a loss on them. They were toxic.</p>
      <p class="indent">Inside of three years they were pennant winners.</p>
      <p class="indent">In four they were champions.</p>
      <p class="indent">In five they were back-to-back champs.</p>
      <p class="indent">By the end of his life his tidy little $168,000 investment turned him into a billionaire.</p>
      <p class="indent">Yes, you can talk about all the empty years connecting 1982 and 1996, and that’s all on the record, all on the Boss, all a part of his dossier. But remember: He isn’t assessed for his Hall of Fame credentials for his baseball acumen, any more than Bud Selig or Happy Chandler or Kenesaw Mountain Landis were. He isn’t being judged by his primacy on a baseball field any more than Tom Yawkey or Bill Veeck or Jacob Ruppert—Steinbrenner’s historical antecedent and, in many ways, his generational clone. Ruppert earned admission in 2013, seventy-four years after his death. It was about fifty years tardy. The other owners in the Hall are a mixed bag:</p>
      <ul class="bullist1">
        <li class="bull2">
          ◊
          <span class="sp2" />
          <b>BUD SELIG</b>
          brought baseball back to Milwaukee but earned his (somewhat dubious) enshrinement for his tenure as commissioner.
        </li>
        <li class="bull2">
          ◊
          <span class="sp2" />
          <b>WALTER O’MALLEY</b>
          broke Brooklyn’s heart when he bolted for LA, but under his watch the Dodgers aggressively widened
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_355" title="355" />
          integration, and he did expand baseball’s borders thirteen hundred miles west.
        </li>
        <li class="bull2">
          ◊
          <span class="sp2" />
          <b>BARNEY DREYFUSS</b>
          owned the Pirates for thirty-three years and is credited with inventing the idea that became the World Series.
        </li>
        <li class="bull2">
          ◊
          <span class="sp2" />
          <b>J. L. WILKINSON, CUMBERLAND POSEY, RUBE FOSTER, ALEX POMPEZ AND EFFA MANLEY</b>
          were prominent figures in the Negro Leagues.
        </li>
        <li class="bull2">
          ◊
          <span class="sp2" />
          <b>BILL VEECK</b>
          was a baseball impresario who had four separate tenures owning three different teams.
        </li>
        <li class="bull2">
          ◊
          <span class="sp2" />
          <b>TOM YAWKEY</b>
          was a paternal owner of the Red Sox for forty-four years and is also among the most controversial enshrines because he was an unrepentant racist who held out for twelve years before integrating the team in 1959.
        </li>
        <li class="bull2">
          ◊
          <span class="sp2" />
          <b>LARRY MACPHAIL</b>
          was briefly co-owner of the Yankees and was the man who introduced night baseball while an executive in Cincinnati.
        </li>
        <li class="bull2">
          ◊
          <span class="sp2" />
          <b>BRANCH RICKEY</b>
          broke baseball’s color barrier by signing Jackie Robinson.
        </li>
        <li class="bull2">
          ◊
          <span class="sp2" />
          <b>CLARK GRIFFITH</b>
          owned the Washington Senators for thirty-five years but before that was a borderline Hall of Fame pitcher who won 237 games.
        </li>
        <li class="bull2">
          ◊
          <span class="sp2" />
          <b>CHARLES COMISKEY</b>
          owned the Chicago White Sox for thirty-one years but his parsimonious ways have long been blamed for the Sox engaging with gamblers looking to fix the 1919 World Series.
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_356" title="356" />
        Ask yourself: Would George Steinbrenner’s career really not match up with any or all of them? For what it’s worth, Steinbrenner’s teams won seven World Series in his thirty-seven years as owner. The others on this list, combined, won eleven.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And then ask yourself:</p>
      <p class="indent">Who has ever been more natural in the job of boss than the Boss? Even now, a decade and a half after his passing, you want to call an especially active member of your fantasy football league a nickname, do you use “Jerry,” as in Jones? “Cuban,” as in Mark?</p>
      <p class="indent">No. Odds are good you call them “Steinbrenner.” Still.</p>
      <p class="indent">An old St. John’s University president who hired multiple basketball coaches on his watch was nicknamed “Father Steinbrenner.” The helicopter father who has a few too many opinions about his daughter’s travel soccer team and loves to share?</p>
      <p class="indent">“Oh god,” you whisper to the other fathers. “Here comes Steinbrenner.”</p>
      <p class="indent">On it goes.</p>
      <p class="indent">Yes. George Steinbrenner belongs in the Hall of Fame, although the Hall has been slow to agree. Three times since his death in 2010 Steinbrenner appeared on Veterans Committee ballots, which is where executives are judged. All three times he’s fallen short of the twelve out of sixteen votes required. He belongs with a plaque that details all the good he brought to the Yankees and to the game of baseball; but also detailing why he was such a controversial figure. Let those two facets battle it out forever in the corridors of Cooperstown.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You can’t write the history of baseball without mentioning ‘George Steinbrenner,’” says Hal Steinbrenner, admittedly not an objective voice but what he says is 100 percent true. “To me, that tells you whether he should be a Hall of Famer, doesn’t it?”</p>
      <p class="indent">George Steinbrenner won’t be eligible for another vote until 2027, when the Veterans Committee will gather names for “Contemporary Baseball Managers/Executives/Umpires.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The vote should be yes.</p>
      <p class="indent">Even if the Boss would call all those ayes fools.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
