<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch6">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_55" title="55" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch6">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch6">Chapter 6</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>Rose, he knows he’s such a credit to the game But the Yankees grab the headlines every time . . .</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—Billy Joel, “Zanzibar”</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">O</span>
        n the morning of Monday, May 16, 1921, the 100,000 or so New Yorkers who read the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        as part of their morning ritual were treated to the same back-page features the newspaper had used in its short, unprofitable history. The
        <i>Daily News</i>
        was the first-ever American paper printed in the “tabloid” format that had gained popularity on London’s Fleet Street, and founder Joseph Medill Patterson was especially fond of the way the
        <i>Daily Mail</i>
        grabbed Londoners by the lapels every morning with big headlines and bigger photographs. Soon after it debuted in 1919 he dubbed his new invention “New York’s Picture Newspaper” and installed a cartoon camera between the words “
        <i>Daily</i>
        ” and “
        <i>News</i>
        ” in the front-page flag. The paper lost buckets of money out of the chute and wouldn’t really become a phenomenon until January 12, 1928, when a
        <i>News</i>
        reporter strapped a small camera to his leg and shot a photo of Ruth Snyder, convicted of murdering her husband, being executed in the electric chair at Sing Sing. The next day’s headline—
        <span class="smallcaps">Dead!</span>
        —inspired equal parts fascination and outrage, but the paper was soon selling a million copies a day.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_56" title="56" />
        However, by May 16, 1921, the paper was still finding its footing. And the back page was, as usual, a breezy collection of life-in–New York snapshots, most of them centering around a fleet of naval vessels docked in New York Harbor, one of them a battleship called the USS
        <i>Arizona</i>
        . It was the next day—Tuesday, May 17—that readers witnessed a silent revolution that the
        <i>News</i>
        never even heralded. Instead of those breezy photos were action shots and results from the previous day’s thoroughbred activity at Jamaica Race Course. The same thing happened Wednesday, and then Thursday. Soon, the back page became a daily array of photographs and headlines focusing on Jack Dempsey and Georges Carpentier, two heavyweight prizefighters scheduled to box in the “Fight of the Century” on July 2 at Boyle’s Thirty Acres in Jersey City, New Jersey, and after that and for the remainder of summer it became a haven for headlines and pictures about the Yankees and the Giants, on a collision course to face each other in the World Series.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And thus was the Back Page born.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        William Randolph Hearst would introduce a rival tabloid, the
        <i>New York Mirror</i>
        , in 1924. The
        <i>New York Post</i>
        , founded by Alexander Hamilton in 1801 and the longest continually published paper in the United States, would convert from a broadsheet format to a tabloid briefly in 1934 and then permanently once Dorothy Schiff purchased the paper in 1939. From then until 1963—when the
        <i>Mirror</i>
        ceased publication—those three tabloids warred on the back page as well as the front; later, in the 1970s, the Long Island–based tabloid
        <i>Newsday</i>
        would make a run at New York City, too, which is when the back page became stuffed with humorous hot takes and venomous rebuttals and all manner of jazzed-up alternate nicknames for the city’s teams: Bombers, Amazin’s, Gang Green, Big Blue.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        And nobody worked the back page the way George Steinbrenner worked the back page. Nobody knew how to play one newspaper against the others, one writer or one columnist against the others, like Steinbrenner, who played them like a Stradivarius. In the years before cell phones and pagers, traveling beat writers would be terrified to stray from their hotel rooms to grab a quick breakfast because if you had a call out to Steinbrenner
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_57" title="57" />
        and he returned it when you were away, you’d pay severe consequences when his latest commentaries were featured in every other newspaper except your own.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Joel Sherman, now perhaps the most well-known newspaper baseball columnist in America but in the early nineties a rookie beat writer for the
        <i>Post</i>
        , still shivers as he recalls the nightmare that awaited a newbie on the beat when a big story was brewing. At the ballpark, the press box announcer would, every few minutes, announce: “Michael Kay, phone call . . . Moss Klein, phone call . . . Jon Heyman, phone call . . . Michael Martinez, phone call . . .”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">There was no mystery who was making those calls, and little chance that Sherman, barely out of NYU, would be receiving one of those calls.</p>
      <p class="indent">“And your soul died a little bit with every announcement,” he says.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        That was the power Steinbrenner wielded. He could make sportswriting careers. He could break them. Some columnists had enough clout to take him head-on, but the reporters on the beat were beholden to him. Another young writer, Jack Curry of
        <i>The New York Times</i>
        , had tried for six months to get a call back from Steinbrenner. One day the phone rang in his parents’ home in Jersey City, and for the first time in weeks he could exhale. It was Steinbrenner. Curry began to ask his questions, grateful in the knowledge his job was safe for another day, when soon a third voice cut in on the telephone line.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Doesn’t anyone know there’s a dinner hour around here?” the third voice said. It was Curry’s mother.</p>
      <p class="indent">Curry was stunned. He tried to regroup, ask his questions, but Steinbrenner interrupted him: “Who was that? What did they say?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Curry explained it was his mother calling him to the supper table. He started to stammer a question but again Steinbrenner stopped him. “She’s right! Family time is important! Why are you talking to me, we’ve talked enough, we’ll talk baseball another time!”</p>
      <p class="indent">And hung up.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        In the moment, Curry wondered how he’d explain that to his editor. But at the start of the call Steinbrenner briefed him on the cardinal rule
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_58" title="58" />
        in dealing with him: “If you never lie to me, if you tell me the truth, I’ll always return your call.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Later, after Curry went to the kitchen ashen-faced and ate with his folks, Steinbrenner did call him back, and the men enjoyed a good working relationship for years thereafter. He got his story. When it came to George Steinbrenner, what always mattered was getting the story.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">It was late</span>
        in that 1973 season when Steinbrenner not only became proficient at playing the tabloid game—Phil Pepe would have an exclusive in the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        on Tuesday, Murray Chass in the
        <i>Times</i>
        on Wednesday, Maury Allen of the
        <i>Post</i>
        on Thursday, Steve Jacobson of
        <i>Newsday</i>
        on Friday, with a new mix the next week, and the next—but he also began to learn about the flip side, too. On September 28, the ongoing Watergate investigation yielded a story listing all the citizens who had contributed $50,000 or more to the reelection campaign of President Nixon before new laws mandating full disclosure of the identities of even the more modest donors had gone into effect. There were hundreds of names on the list who’d given a total of just under $20 million, all of which had been done secretly—but, as the story stressed, in large part legally.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Among the notables were Joan Payson, owner of the Mets; J. Willard Marriott, head of the hotel corporation; four Rockefeller siblings, including Nelson, who happened to be governor of New York at the time; and George M. Steinbrenner III, who was listed simply: “Cleveland, Ohio, $75,000.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner had long contributed to political campaigns on both sides of the aisle, and he was eager to contribute to Nixon’s reelection because his administration had guided waterfront legislation friendly to Steinbrenner’s shipping business. Nixon’s personal attorney, Herbert Kalmbach, suggested it would be more efficient if Steinbrenner made thirty-three different contributions of $3,000 in order to both comply with the new law and keep him as an anonymous donor as well as to earmark the payments for a number of the reelection committee’s subdivisions. Steinbrenner could have simply paid the entire amount before April 7, 1973, and still remained unnamed. And had he simply written thirty-three checks for $3,000 he would also
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_59" title="59" />
        have gone undetected. But he was sloppy. Two of the checks he wrote were for a sum a bit larger than $3,000. That’s what got his name noticed by the Watergate Committee, and then they began investigating Steinbrenner, who, it turned out, had violated the limit for contributions to both Republican and Democratic candidates, and had also coaxed some of his employees to cover for him if they were called before the grand jury.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner knew he was in a fix. He hired Edward Bennett Williams, about as high-powered a Washington attorney as has ever hung a shingle inside the Beltway and a man who, in 1979, would join Steinbrenner’s own exclusive baseball club when he purchased the Baltimore Orioles. Steinbrenner publicly insisted his innocence, even as he was indicted on fifteen counts by Watergate prosecutor Leon Jaworski in April. Privately he hoped Williams could get his case dismissed or, at the least, plead it down so there would be no felony conviction. Steinbrenner knew Bowie Kuhn—up for reelection himself in 1975 for a second six-year term as baseball commissioner—would be following the case closely. He tried to keep a low profile. It was hard. At the press conference introducing Bill Virdon as the new Yankees manager on January 3, 1974—the one-year anniversary of Steinbrenner’s tenure with the team—Steinbrenner was the star of the day, spinning that Virdon wasn’t simply a consolation prize when it became clear the Yankees couldn’t hire Dick Williams.</p>
      <p class="indent">Virdon was a quiet man, serious but mild-mannered, a manager who’d won a pennant in 1972 with the Pirates but had been fired the next year—with Pittsburgh in first place, in September—because his bosses deemed him not fiery enough. He believed in treating his players like men, preferred simple spring training practices, and was, in every way possible, exactly the emotional opposite of the kind of manager Steinbrenner was attracted to.</p>
      <p class="indent">Quickly, it was obvious Virdon had been hired because he was willing to work cheap and on a one-year contract, the better to keep the Yankees’ options open in case their number one choice became available; Virdon’s only alternative in 1974 would’ve been the Triple-A Denver Bears.</p>
      <p class="indent">“No,” Steinbrenner insisted, “we haven’t given up on signing Dick Williams. If he gets free, we’d have to cross that bridge.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_60" title="60" />
        Virdon was standing right next to him inside at the Shea Stadium Diamond Club.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“All I know,” Virdon said, “is that I’m the manager of the New York Yankees.”</p>
      <p class="indent">A curious, most unexpected thing happened across the next few months. The Yankees won their first four games, including a 6–1 Opening Day victory over Steinbrenner’s hometown Indians, which drew only 20,744 fans to Shea Stadium in the first game of their two-year crash pad in Queens. They struggled some after that. Steinbrenner was getting restless. His instinct was to fly to Arlington, Texas, to meet the team in the midst of a thirteen-game road swing, maybe offer an old-school locker room pep talk. He decided not to. Instead, the Yankees began to play much better. They began to win. Virdon wasn’t an especially popular figure in the clubhouse; he was tougher than advertised and had little problem telling Bobby Murcer that he was no longer the team’s center fielder—career singles hitter Elliott Maddox was.</p>
      <p class="indent">Incensed when Virdon made the move, Murcer decided to appeal his case higher up the Yankees ladder, to a man with whom he had developed a most unlikely friendship.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You’ll play where the manager tells you to play,” George Steinbrenner told his erstwhile hundred-thousand-dollar bum. “You know you’re better than you’ve been playing.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Murcer did start to hit more. So did everyone. Graig Nettles, who’d been such a disappointment in 1973 after arriving from Cleveland, tied the American League record for most home runs in April with eleven, and he kept hitting the ball hard. Doc Medich and Pat Dobson became co-aces of the staff, after longtime staff centerpiece Mel Stottlemyre hurt his shoulder, ending the career of the final active Yankee who’d participated in their last playoff run in 1964. Gabe Paul once again fleeced his old friends in Cleveland, this time acquiring Chris Chambliss and Dick Tidrow, two men who would be stalwarts on some terrific teams to come. The Yankees won two of three in Arlington, swept the Royals in Kansas City, and when they walked into the Royals’ stadium visitor’s clubhouse, traveling secretary Bill Kane greeted each player by peeling from a roll of ten-dollar bills.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_61" title="61" />
        “Car fare for when we get home tonight,” Kane announced. “Mr. Steinbrenner is very pleased. He doesn’t want you guys to have to take the bus.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But Steinbrenner had one more surprise up his sleeve: When the Yankees plane landed at LaGuardia Airport, just after three o’clock in the morning, he was there to greet the team, and shook everyone’s hand as they deplaned.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Hell of a job!” he barked, over and over.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Sure, we were surprised to see him,” Virdon said. “But I guess nothing he does really surprises us.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees kept winning. If Virdon was worried that he was merely keeping his dugout seat warm for Dick Williams, that ceased being an issue on June 28, when the California Angels hired Williams. Charlie Finley did not object.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Finley doesn’t hate the Yankees,” Gabe Paul said with a laugh. “He hates one guy.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner, meanwhile, retreated more and more to his home office in Lorain, Ohio, and consulted regularly with his lawyer, who’d seen enough of the Watergate investigation to know Steinbrenner would undoubtedly have to pay a certain price. That bill came due on August 23, when Steinbrenner pled guilty to one count of conspiracy and one count of obstruction of justice, a felony, as he’d instructed some of his workers to lie before the grand jury. American Ship Building Co. was also found guilty of two counts of conspiracy and making illegal campaign contributions. A week later, Steinbrenner avoided what could have been a six-month jail term when he was instead fined $15,000 personally, while his business was docked an additional $20,000.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner had already promised when he’d been indicted that he’d step away from his day-to-day involvement in the Yankees until justice ran its course, although he’d been about as successful at doing that as a smoker cold-turkeying Pall Malls. Now he announced an immediate public withdrawing from all baseball business for the foreseeable future, a preemptive act he hoped would convince Kuhn to show mercy while he pondered how
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_62" title="62" />
        to punish the Yankees’ owner. Kuhn had the authority to force Steinbrenner to sell the team thanks to the felony admission. The only other baseball owner ever so convicted had been Fred Saigh, guilty of tax evasion in 1953, and it was because baseball reacted by banning him from the sport that Saigh had been forced to sell the St. Louis Cardinals for slightly less than he’d paid for it—the only other instance in which a baseball team sold for a loss, other than George Steinbrenner’s purchase of the Yankees in 1973.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Kuhn sniffed at Steinbrenner’s self-imposed ban, later saying, “George tried to beat me to the punch.” He was also unmoved. Kuhn met with Steinbrenner and his attorney a few days after Labor Day, then retreated to his Park Avenue office to mull over what he had to do. Steinbrenner disappeared from public view as his baseball team, for the first time in ten years, made a furious run for first place. They got there at last on September 4, the latest they’d held that spot since the last day of the ’64 season. They clung to first for eighteen of the next nineteen days, at one point stretching their lead to two and a half games. The Orioles caught fire, winning their last nine games and passing the Yankees on September 24. One day in September, with the Yankees about to play the Orioles in a critical game at Shea Stadium, Steinbrenner sent a cassette tape to Virdon—packed with full-blown football coach clichés (absent the 18.5-minute gap of another famous tape from that Watergate summer)—and asked him to play it for the team.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees lost that night. Steinbrenner was undeterred. He ignored his own quasi suspension and was on hand for the season’s final five games: three in Cleveland, two in Milwaukee.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You just wait until next year!” Steinbrenner crowed after the final out of the season. He’d decided he could no longer simply keep to himself in his stadium seat, but he also didn’t want to taunt the commissioner by explicitly violating his self-suspension, so he held court outside the visitor’s clubhouse at County Stadium and filled the reporters’ notebooks gleefully. “Next year this club will really be something!”</p>
      <p class="indent">Kuhn had other ideas about the next year for Steinbrenner.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">It was thanksgiving eve</span>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_63" title="63" />
        when Bowie Kuhn finally rendered a verdict, and it flabbergasted the sport. Kuhn had spent much of his time in office trying to duck almost every important decision that passed across his desk. He’d shamefully stayed away from Atlanta on the night of April 8, 1974, when Henry Aaron had blasted his 715th career home run, passing Babe Ruth for the sport’s most revered record. He’d been taken to the cleaners by Marvin Miller and the players’ union in the brief 1972 strike, and seemed determined to grasp foolishly to the status quo as baseball’s economic revolution inched closer and closer to his doorstep. He was up for reelection, and so most in the baseball community expected him to go easy on Steinbrenner, not wishing to make any new enemies among the owners with him needing 75 percent of them to ensure six more years.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“He will hit him with a feather duster,” one anonymous owner surmised.</p>
      <p class="indent">Instead, Kuhn opted for a sledgehammer.</p>
      <p class="indent">“An essential element of a professional team sport is the public’s confidence in its integrity,” Kuhn wrote in his judgment, which lasted twelve pages. “If the public does not believe that a sport is honest it would be impossible for the sport to succeed. Attempting to influence employees to behave dishonestly is the kind of misconduct which, if ignored by baseball, would undermine the public’s confidence in the game.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner was suspended for two years, “ineligible and incompetent to have any association whatsoever with any major league club or its personnel.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner reacted as you might expect.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Naturally we are shocked beyond belief by Mr. Kuhn’s decision,” he said. “It is certainly a wonderful Thanksgiving present. I will be meeting with my attorney, Edward Bennett Williams, in the next few days and will announce our plans early next week.”</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_64" title="64" />
          As would be a regular part of Steinbrenner’s game plan over the years, he was less angered by the punishment as by one word. “How
          <i>dare</i>
          he call me incompetent!” he raged at his public relations VP, Marty Appel. Kuhn, a by-the-book lawyer, understood that in strictly legal terms “incompetent” merely emphasized Steinbrenner was incapable of being involved with the Yankees because he’d just forbidden him. If Kuhn was going for an extra elbow to Steinbrenner’s ribs . . . well, if so, he took it to the grave.
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner’s first instinct was to fight. His lawyer calmed him. Williams believed just keeping his client out of jail when just about everyone else with a whisper of “Watergate” attached to his name had wound up incarcerated was enough of a win. On the courtside steps back in August, asked if he planned to appeal, Williams had looked incredulously at the gathered reporters and asked, “Appeal
        <i>what</i>
        ?” Now his only appeal was to Steinbrenner’s common sense.
        <i>Lay low. Deputize people you trust. Prove to Kuhn you have learned the error of your ways.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Nobody is going to expect that when it’s time for money to be spent that they’re not going to call you,” Williams told him. “Of course they will.”</p>
      <p class="indent">There was also this: The very office of commissioner had been invented in the interest of keeping discipline—oftentimes Draconian—in the game. Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis had been appointed in 1920 and given free rein at a time when eight members of the Chicago White Sox stood accused of throwing the 1919 World Series. Those eight players—notably Shoeless Joe Jackson, one of the game’s most feared hitters—were acquitted in a Chicago court. But a day later, they were thrown out of baseball for life by Landis, no questions asked. Happy Chandler later suspended Leo Durocher from managing the 1947 Brooklyn Dodgers because of his association with “unsavory elements,” and Durocher, like the White Sox players, had little recourse. The commissioner had sweeping “best interests of the game” powers, and Kuhn was using them aggressively.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner relented. He appointed Patrick J. Cunningham, the Bronx Democratic leader, to replace him as general partner for the duration of his
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_65" title="65" />
        suspension. And he fully deputized Gabe Paul, who that day was about to enter the most blissful period of his baseball existence. Already, Paul had grown weary of Steinbrenner’s interference, but it especially galled him when he tried to lend his limited expertise when Paul honestly believed he wouldn’t be able to explain the infield-fly rule if asked.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Beginning now, this would be Gabe Paul’s show, and Steinbrenner would, for the time being, be reduced to a shadow figure. And the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        , the
        <i>Post</i>
        and friends were ready for all of it, the
        <i>News</i>
        proclaiming on its back page Thanksgiving morning:
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span class="smallcaps">BENCHED FOR TWO YEARS!</span>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
