<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch7">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_66" title="66" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch7">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch7">Chapter 7</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>George is a great guy unless you have to work for him.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—Lou Piniella</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">S</span>
        ome wondered if he would sell, rather than endure the humiliation of suspension. They clearly did not know George M. Steinbrenner III very well. Quitting was anathema to Steinbrenner. His father, years earlier, had hammered home a credo that stayed with him forever: “You show me a quitter, I’ll show you a loser.” And the only thing Steinbrenner detested more than quitting was losing. He thought about suing Kuhn. He filed the papers. He was eager to fight. In February he withdrew.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“It’s humiliating to take the punishment,” he said. “But people who should be concentrating on winning a pennant will be called away to testify, and that could detract from the job they have to do. I could win the battle and lose the war. I’ll take it if I have to, but it’s a small price to pay to win a pennant. I’ll be better for it.”</p>
      <p class="indent">So, in truth, would the Yankees.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Gabe Paul had waited his entire baseball life for an opportunity like this. He’d waded through some difficult seasons in Cincinnati, and just as he was assembling the final pieces for what would be a pennant winner in 1961—including signing a young Black slugger from Oakland named Frank Robinson—he left the team to help the start-up baseball operation in Houston. He regretted that move almost as quickly as he made it, and by
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_67" title="67" />
        1962 was back in the game, in Cleveland, a team that hadn’t been a champion in fourteen years and was beginning to crater. Dwindling fan interest, a series of shallow-pocketed owners and a crumbling ballpark conspired to tie Paul’s hands, and his teams finished .500 just once in twelve years, never closer than fifteen games out of first.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner had been the white knight he’d been looking for his whole career. Michael Burke had been an impediment, but Paul knew from the jump he could steer Steinbrenner away from Burke, and did. Lee MacPhail was the GM, and Paul respected MacPhail, but he could sense MacPhail was restless, unhappy that Burke hadn’t included him in his scheme to buy the Yankees from CBS. It was also clear MacPhail had his eyes on the American League presidency. So by January 1, 1974, Paul was the top baseball man in the organization. And it was around that time that he developed a new nickname for his boss, one he’d share with anyone so long as he was out of earshot.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “
        <i>This Steinbrenner</i>
         . . .” became a regular beginning to a lot of Paul’s sentences.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Even as Steinbrenner’s legal woes mounted, and even as he agreed to step away in the months before the commissioner decided his fate, Steinbrenner never forgot Paul’s phone number. He called every day, sometimes twice a day. And he wasn’t shy about including his opinion about Virdon, about the Yankees players, about stars on other teams who may be available that perhaps Paul should consider. Paul could name all twenty-five players on all twenty-four major league rosters; he was pretty sure Steinbrenner only knew half the players on his
        <i>own</i>
        roster.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I had to take his calls,” Paul said years later. “I mean, he was the
        <i>boss</i>
        .”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        But now those calls came less frequently. For the first time in his career Paul’s baseball acumen was backed up by resources that would allow him to take big swings. He still felt compelled to back-channel his opinions to Steinbrenner in exile, but now it seemed that Steinbrenner, faced with little other choice, had learned to trust his GM. He backed Paul at almost every turn. Late in the year, he approved a raise for Sparky Lyle to $92,500 for the 1975 season, the highest amount ever paid a relief
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_68" title="68" />
        pitcher and one that pleased most of Steinbrenner’s fellow Lords because Lyle had been talking about playing out his option and mounting an official challenge to the century-old reserve clause, binding players forever to their teams; this proved a temporary ebb against an oncoming tide. He approved a two-year contract extension for Bill Virdon, after Virdon led the Yankees to eighty-nine wins and second place in the AL East and was named the AL Manager of the Year.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Most important to Paul, Steinbrenner stood firm when he called him during the 1974 World Series and informed him that the San Francisco Giants would be willing to part with Bobby Bonds, the gifted but enigmatic outfielder who’d become only the fifth player in baseball history to hit thirty home runs and steal thirty bases in the same year, 1969, and then repeated that trick in 1973. But the cost would be stiff: Bobby Murcer. Murcer had tailed off in 1974, but he’d still been an All-Star. He failed to hit a home run at Shea Stadium until late September, and he disliked playing for Virdon, but he was still the Yankees’ most popular player since Mickey Mantle. Paul believed Murcer, at age twenty-eight, was showing early signs of decline. Bonds was the same age and had an off year in ’74 that yielded twenty-one homers and forty-one steals and was still an elite athlete in center. Paul’s professional motto drilled into him by his mentor in Cincinnati, Warren Giles, was “there is no substitute for talent.” And Bonds was one of the game’s most talented players.</p>
      <p class="indent">But before Paul could close the deal, he needed to give Steinbrenner a heads-up, and he knew Steinbrenner had grown fond of Murcer. No longer a bum in Steinbrenner’s eyes, the man who wore number 1 had become his favorite player, and a friendship followed, and so did this promise in the summer of 1974:</p>
      <p class="indent">“As long as I’m the owner here, you’ll be a Yankee.”</p>
      <p class="indent">This was the first time Steinbrenner had made such a vow. It would not be the last. And it would certainly not be the last time he would have to walk words back. But as much as he liked to toss around his opinions like a longtime-listener, first-time talk radio caller, George-from-Cleveland also realized Paul had forgotten more baseball than George might ever know.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_69" title="69" />
        “If you think it’s for the best, do it,” Steinbrenner said.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Paul did.</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          A few months later Paul would have to make a similar decision about another Steinbrenner favorite when the two of them couldn’t stop haggling over a few thousand dollars for his 1975 contract. When Paul told shortstop Gene “Stick” Michael that he was being released on January 21, Michael laughed, “You’re not serious?!” and then called Steinbrenner, by now fully relocated to Tampa, and asked the same question.
        </p>
        <p class="exti3">“I’m afraid we are,” Steinbrenner said, before assuring Michael—who would play one more year for Ralph Houk in Detroit—that there’d be a job waiting for him with the Yankees when he retired.</p>
        <p class="extiz">Michael wound up with several (scout, coach, eye-in-the-sky, manager) before assuming the general manager’s job in 1991—at precisely the moment when, with Steinbrenner temporarily tossed out of baseball again, the Yankees would again need steady veteran instincts and guile with an eye to the future and an unflinching devotion to improving the team’s depth in trying to build the team back up from the dust. Someone who had the same skills as Gabe Paul.</p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">By the end of the year, with Steinbrenner now officially gone and by the letter of Kuhn’s agreement technically unable to discuss any baseball matters at all, Paul would have to quietly ask Kuhn’s approval to consult with Steinbrenner, because Paul wanted to enter the wildest baseball sweepstakes ever, and he wanted the full muscle of the New York Yankees and their coffers behind him. A few weeks earlier, arbitrator Peter Seitz—you may wish to bookmark that name—had ruled that Steinbrenner’s old nemesis, Charlie Finley, failed to make insurance payments due his star pitcher, Jim “Catfish” Hunter, and so he found Finley in breach and declared Hunter a free agent, able to sign with any other team besides Oakland, presumably to the highest bidder.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_70" title="70" />
        Hunter was exactly the kind of superstar Steinbrenner craved, and even an old-school man like Gabe Paul was blown away that the winner of the 1974 AL Cy Young Award—25–12 in ’74 and 106–49 with a 2.89 ERA the past five years as the undisputed ace on the best team in the sport—was suddenly available.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Kuhn relented. It was Steinbrenner’s money that Paul would be flashing, after all. So the race began, and twenty-two teams sent representatives to Ahoskie, North Carolina, to visit the law offices of Hunter’s attorney, J. Carlton Cherry. Only the A’s, who were forbidden to do so, and their Bay Area neighbors, the financially imperiled Giants, abstained. Paul flew to Steinbrenner’s new offices in Tampa to brief the owner on what he believed the parameters would be to hook this extraordinary fish. Early estimates had the total costs at $2 million but Paul had come armed with some helpful information courtesy of Clyde Kluttz, a Yankees scout and fellow Carolinian who’d signed Hunter for Finley when he was working for the A’s back in 1964. Kluttz was privy to the bids. He knew $3 million was the likely ante and that some teams might be willing to go even higher. Paul told Steinbrenner all of this.</p>
      <p class="indent">“We have to get this guy,” Steinbrenner said.</p>
      <p class="indent">It wasn’t easy. Kluttz’s intel had been spot-on. One team, the San Diego Padres, had just been bought by McDonald’s founder Ray Kroc, and they were willing to essentially hand Hunter a blank check and a lifetime supply of Quarter Pounders. When Paul was granted an audience he did what he’d been doing in baseball negotiations for a quarter century and led with a bid so low that Kluttz immediately shook his head quietly at Paul, subtly gesturing an upraised thumb. Paul’s clever games weren’t going to carry the day. Steinbrenner’s money would, or else Kroc would add a new star to his stable alongside Grimace, Hamburglar and Mayor McCheese.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        After a few days, it was clear the two choices were San Diego or the Yankees. Both were offering fairly complicated structured contracts that between salary, deferred payments, insurance, no-interest loans and annuities would clear $3 million, a number that had been unheard of in baseball at the start of the month. Hunter and his team knew that Kroc, trying to
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_71" title="71" />
        make a huge splash in a city where baseball had fizzled since arriving in 1969, would take whatever the Yankees’ final offer was and nudge it as high as was necessary. So now it became a simple choice.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Cherry, the lawyer, told Hunter: “Can you be happy in New York?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Kluttz countered. “Tom Seaver seems happy in New York.” (Which he was, though whatever Hunter signed for was bound to alter that cheerfulness.)</p>
      <p class="indent">Cherry: “There’s sun in San Diego.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Kluttz: “How many Hall of Famers played in San Diego? Would you like me to list all the Hall of Famers who played with the Yankees?”</p>
      <p class="indent">That one got Hunter’s attention.</p>
      <p class="indent">“What about Steinbrenner?” he asked. “I hear things about him.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“You’ve just played for Charlie Finley for ten years,” Kluttz said. “How much worse could Steinbrenner possibly be?”</p>
      <p class="indent">That was that. Hunter agreed to sign with the Yankees and flew to New York for a press conference on December 31 so the contract—final total: five years, $3.25 million, much of it deferred—could be a part of the Yankees’ 1974 books. Hunter smiled easily and won the press conference (despite being confronted with a room full of cranky sportswriters who were especially salty at having their New Year’s Eve plans torched).</p>
      <p class="indent">“What are you going to do with all that money?” Hunter was asked.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I don’t know,” Hunter replied. “But maybe when I get through playing I can sit down and count it.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Despite the presence</span>
        of Catfish Hunter—who had an elite season in 1975 (23–14, 2.58 ERA, an astonishing thirty complete games and 328 innings pitched)—and a solid bounce-back year from Bobby Bonds (thirty-two homers, thirty steals), George Steinbrenner’s exile was not a happy one. The Yankees started 1–6 and 11–18 before Virdon once again settled the waters, and on June 24 they actually snuck into first place when Hunter threw a four-hitter at the Orioles in Baltimore.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner visited spring training in Fort Lauderdale briefly. He occasionally skulked into Shea Stadium, usually sitting on the press level but
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_72" title="72" />
        waving off any press that approached. On Opening Day he’d revived his old standby, getting a tape recorder in Virdon’s hands before the game and instructing his field manager to play it for the troops. The players had a hard time stifling laughter after Virdon pressed Play.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“It was a cross between Knute Rockne and George Patton,” Graig Nettles remembered years later. “It was . . . something else.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Still, as aggravating as he could be to Gabe Paul, Steinbrenner was still looked upon as a kindly uncle by most of the Yankees. At the All-Star Game at Milwaukee’s County Stadium, catcher Thurman Munson saw Bowie Kuhn settling into his seat next to the American League dugout. The men shook hands.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Commissioner,” Munson said, “when are you going to let us have George Steinbrenner back? We really miss him. We need him. He’s done a lot of good things for us, and we think he’s good for the Yankees and good for baseball.”</p>
      <p class="indent">A few years later, if someone could’ve handed Munson a tape of that conversation he’d have looked for the nearest incinerator to throw it in. But for now, this represented the majority opinion in the Yankees’ clubhouse. When Steinbrenner went to Dallas to watch the Yankees play the Rangers a few weeks later, there was a line of players waiting to shake Steinbrenner’s hand as he ate breakfast in the team hotel. By this point, the Red Sox had zoomed past in the AL East standings, and the Yankees were at the start of a dreadful skid that would carry them to the end of the month.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “He’s dying to have a clubhouse meeting and chew out a few behinds,” a Steinbrenner ally told Phil Pepe of the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        and Maury Allen of the
        <i>Post</i>
        . “You can see how it’s eating him up inside, how he’d like to have a talk with the players. Of course he won’t. He can’t.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner’s frustrations bubbled over on the afternoon of Sunday, July 27. The Yankees and Red Sox had split the first two games of an important four-game series at Shea Stadium, leaving the Yankees eight games behind. There was still a lot of baseball to be played in 1975, but if the Yankees couldn’t salvage at least a sweep of that day’s doubleheader they’d be ten back, and Boston was playing so well and the Yankees so poorly that
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_73" title="73" />
        it would feel like twice as much. There were 53,631 at Shea, which would prove to be the single-highest attendance the Yankees would draw in their two years in Queens. One of those fans, eschewing his usual spot on the press level, settled into his box seat just to the left of the Yankees’ dugout behind first base, shortly before the first pitch, which Catfish Hunter threw to Boston DH Bernie Carbo at 1:06 p.m.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And from the start, George Steinbrenner was in a foul mood. For the first four innings the Yankees couldn’t scratch a hit off Boston pitcher Bill Lee. And if Steinbrenner wasn’t exactly encyclopedic in his knowledge of the American League, one thing he did know is he didn’t care for Lee—nicknamed “Spaceman”—who was an odd flake, notably outspoken, quite conversant on all matters counterculture, a proud radical in a mostly conservative sport. In later years, Lee would return the favor plenty, once referring to the Yankees as “George Steinbrenner’s Nazis, his brown shirts.”</p>
      <p class="indent">For now, he was simply making Steinbrenner’s batters look foolish.</p>
      <p class="indent">But they broke through in the bottom of the fifth. Graig Nettles and Chris Chambliss led off with clean singles. Sandy Alomar attempted to sacrifice, and bunted so perfectly nobody could make a play on him. The bases were loaded, nobody out. Due up for the Yankees was Fred “Chicken” Stanley, whose .224 batting average and beanpole physique helped explain his nickname. As well as Lee was throwing, this was the Yankees’ chance to seize the game. A large portion of the crowd waited to see if Bill Virdon would send in a pinch hitter for his good-glove/bad-bat shortstop and many of them stirred uneasily when Stanley took his place in the batter’s box.</p>
      <p class="indent">One of them was especially aggrieved.</p>
      <p class="indent">“What are you doing?!” Steinbrenner yelled, standing and craning his neck from his field-level seat, aiming his displeasure into the home dugout, where his fury was easily audible to Bill Virdon. “Where’s the pinch hitter?!”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Stanley drizzled a ground ball to third, and Nettles was forced at home. Boos cascaded from the grandstand, and rage filled the owner’s box, none of it assuaged when Bobby Bonds followed with a strikeout and Rick Dempsey with a pop-out to end the threat. Steinbrenner’s verbal assault continued unabated. Two innings later Alomar led off by flying out to left;
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_74" title="74" />
        now, Virdon called Stanley back and sent up Alex Johnson—a former AL batting champion—to hit for him.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “
        <i>Now</i>
        he uses the pinch hitter!” Steinbrenner thundered, raising his arms in disgust.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">When Johnson grounded out—to the soundtrack of more Steinbrenner screaming—Virdon was caught smirking in the dugout. The problem was, Stanley’s defensive replacement, Jim Mason, booted a one-out grounder by Fred Lynn in the top of the ninth, who then came around to score after a steal and an RBI single by Rick Miller. Lee retired the Yankees one, two, three in the bottom half, and the Red Sox won, 1–0, then blanked the Yankees again, 6–0, in the second game.</p>
      <p class="indent">“He was a roaring maniac as he left the ballpark” was how a helpful usher described the way Steinbrenner departed that day to inquiring newsmen.</p>
      <p class="indent">Being a detached observer was getting old.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">There were a</span>
        few knives under the table on July 17, when baseball’s owners gathered in Milwaukee to vote on a new six-year term for commissioner Bowie Kuhn. Things did not look good. His old sparring partner Charlie Finley had formed a strong alliance with Baltimore owner Jerold Hoffberger, and in the days leading up to the vote the pair believed they also had Brad Corbett of the Texas Rangers lined up on their side. They needed one more vote. They went to bed on the sixteenth believing they had it: Patrick J. Cunningham, serving as George Steinbrenner’s proxy at the Pfister Hotel. Steinbrenner promised he wouldn’t use his vote as a cudgel seeking revenge for Kuhn’s suspension, but it sure seemed like he was about to do just that. So sure were the renegade owners that they informed Kuhn of the straw poll the night before the vote.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">A funny thing happened, though.</p>
      <p class="indent">When the owners gathered in the morning and began casting their ballots, Cunningham changed his vote. That clinched Kuhn’s reelection. Corbett decided to switch his now-meaningless vote to yay, and Finley and Hoffberger stormed out of the room.</p>
      <p class="indent">Finley, especially, smelled a rat.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_75" title="75" />
        “What a joke,” he railed bitterly.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Finley wasn’t alone in assuming the Yankees’ change of heart might have had something to do with Kuhn promising to reduce Steinbrenner’s suspension in exchange for his—er,
        <i>Cunningham’s</i>
        —vote.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I realize people will think George was instrumental in my vote,” Cunningham said. “But so help me God, he wasn’t.”</p>
      <p class="indent">God was unavailable for comment, and neither was Steinbrenner, though he did offer a terse—and somewhat ironic—statement: “I think the Yankees did what was in the best interests of baseball,” a line Kuhn had used, and would use, an incalculable number of times in rendering decisions in his mostly forgettable time as commissioner.</p>
      <p class="indent">If the fix was in, nobody—certainly not Kuhn—was going to say so, or ever did. Still, it was Kuhn’s decision on March 1, 1976, to reinstate Steinbrenner and slice his suspension by six months that finally made him feel whole again. Much of baseball might have rolled its eyes, but that didn’t bother Steinbrenner a bit.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m going to be more active than ever,” he said, words that undoubtedly sent a chill down the spine of Gabe Paul—and made others who easily recalled his “absentee owner” vow laugh. “Very active. I’m going to be right in the middle of things.”</p>
      <p class="indent">By then Steinbrenner had already approved the hiring of the man with whom he would be singularly and uniquely associated for most of the next fifteen years, a man who would, more than any other, not only relish looking Steinbrenner in the eye but also, on occasion, spit in it.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
