<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 29</title>
    <link href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch29">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_333" title="333" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch29">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch29">Chapter 29</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>There are people that get up in the morning and have their good day or bad day depending on how the Yankees did the night before.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—George Steinbrenner</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">T</span>
        his was about a month after his father died, late August 2010. Hank Steinbrenner was back in New York, making a rare appearance at Yankee Stadium. The cause was a good one: the first-annual “Boss’s Cup,” a game that on this day featured twenty-two underprivileged New York City teenagers who’d taken part in “Hank’s Yanks,” a foundation Hank developed the year before to bring baseball to youngsters who otherwise might’ve never been touched by the game. It would be the great joy of his adult life. Several of the kids drawn to baseball by Hank’s Yanks—the uniform looked just like regular Yankees pinstripes, only instead of the famous interlocking “NY” logo the “N” was flattened to an “H”—wound up drafted by big-league clubs. Most notable was Brooklyn’s Williams Jerez, who starred at Grand Street Campus High School, was taken in the second round by the Red Sox in 2011 and appeared in twenty-nine major-league games with the Angels, Giants and Pirates in 2018–19. He earned a win in his only big-league decision, July 18, 2019, against the Mets.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I remember when I was in college my father told me ‘America is supposed to be the land of milk and honey, but for a lot of people it just isn’t.
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_334" title="334" />
        That’s got to change,’” Hank said, sitting in the first base dugout while Hank’s Yanks warmed up for a game against Mariano Rivera’s Dominican Foundation team. “I hope Hank’s Yanks made him proud. I think it did. I think it’s what he was trying to teach me years ago.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Hank was reluctant to speak too freely about the Yankees out of respect for his brother and the organizational chain of command. Still, sitting in the stadium, it was impossible for him to ignore the big pennant flapping in the breeze in center field, emblematic of the team’s World Series win the previous October.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Our plan—myself, my brother, my sisters, the entire staff of the Yankees—it’s always going to be the same. We play to win and do what we have to, to win. We don’t make a lot of money because of revenue sharing and we don’t shy away from paying salaries. We’re building up the farm system, too. The objective is the same. Win. Every year.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Hank figured this was the least they could do to pay tribute to the Boss, whose absence he took especially hard, even forty-five days later.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I was the first and we did everything together when I was a kid, long before he bought the Yankees,” he said wistfully. “When he was in his hospital bed I wasn’t thinking about the Yankees or all that stuff that’s on TV. That’s my
        <i>dad</i>
        . As I walked around the room after he passed, it was like he kept following me. That was the hardest part.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Hank caught himself before his voice could crack.</p>
      <p class="indent">“He’s just not there anymore.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">It wasn’t long</span>
        after when that sentiment—a beautiful and uncomplicated tribute from a son to a father—was co-opted by a vast faction of Yankees fans who studied Hal closely, who wanted reassurance that when he and his brother spoke of maintaining Yankees excellence that they weren’t simply following a script authored by their father. It may have been Hal who approved the near-half-billion-dollar spending spree that helped yield the 2009 title, but the old man was still alive then. Whether it was true or not, the belief was Hal still had to answer to his father; that was
        <i>exactly</i>
        the kind of aggressive approach the Boss would’ve made.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_335" title="335" />
        It was important to Hal, from the start, that Yankees fans understood what they were getting in him. By the time he became the primary face of the Yankees he’d settled into a mostly quiet life with his second wife, Christina DiTullio, and much of his time away from the Yankees was spent with many of the same philanthropic causes his father had been involved in.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">One thing Hal has an affinity for that his father most certainly did not—especially after what happened to Thurman Munson—is flying. Flying is Hal’s chief hobby—he owns a GTO single-engine and a Cessna high-wing plane—and at thirteen thousand feet a lot of Yankees business can be pondered in the comfort of a cockpit.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I loved my father,” he says, “but I also knew I could never pretend to be him. That’s neither my nature nor my inclination. That doesn’t make either style better. That doesn’t mean I agreed with all of what he did, or disagreed with it. If I tried to be my dad it would come across as phony because it would
        <i>be</i>
        phony. People would spot that from a mile away. And I wouldn’t be able to do my job.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">While it was George who established the family’s base in Tampa, he also had a taste for New York and had a habit of winding up in the city’s gossip columns simply by being an aficionado of the kinds of places where paparazzi tended to prowl as part of their regular rounds. The Boss was never shy about complaining about things that annoyed him, but he never—not once—bitched about seeing his picture in the paper after a night on the town. Hal, in his way, best embodies Derek Jeter’s old philosophy: You won’t ever see him on Page Six, let alone page one.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I don’t shy away from who I am,” Hal said, “and I have never shied away from my last name. Maybe it’s because being a Steinbrenner is all I’ve ever known? I certainly take the responsibility of the family name seriously.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Hal was shrewd: He didn’t agree to underwrite the richest team ever assembled in order to satisfy his father, but because it was smart business. They had a new ballpark to fill, and they filled it: 3,719,358 customers in 2009. In the reduced capacity of the new park the Yankees played to 98.6 percent capacity, easily the highest in their history (exceeded in 2010
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_336" title="336" />
        when they played to 99.4 percent). Winning was the Yankees’ business. Joe Girardi took uniform number twenty-seven when he was hired as manager because he intended to lead the Yankees to their twenty-seventh championship; as soon as he did, he changed to twenty-eight. Team president Randy Levine, echoing the Steinbrenner family, said midway through the 2010 season, “We view any season that doesn’t end in a championship as coming up short,” which fell slightly south of the way that was generally misquoted—“any season without a championship is a failure”—but the point was unambiguous.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Yankees fans heard that loud and clear.</p>
      <p class="indent">They also saw this: After the Yankees failed to make it to the World Series in either 2010 or 2011, the team played a little bit of hardball with Derek Jeter when his contract expired in 2010, realizing Jeter didn’t want to play anywhere else. Jeter settled for four years and $51 million guaranteed, with the opportunity to kick that up as high as $65 million. Hank Steinbrenner said cryptically the following spring, “Sometimes you celebrate too much, players concentrating on building mansions and not concentrating on winning.” Jeter had by that point constructed a huge estate near the Yankees Florida complex—the tabs coined it “St. Jetersburg”—so there was little mystery who Steinbrenner was talking about. Jeter took that with a laugh, but that was the last Hank was ever heard from on matters pertaining to the Yankees.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Hal didn’t mean for the Jeter negotiation to serve as a harbinger. In both 2010 and 2011 the Yankees were the lone team with a payroll north of $200 million, to which luxury-tax penalties added close to another $50 million to the tab. The Yankees never allowed money to stand in the way of their annual goals, and George Steinbrenner had proven time and again that he would brook no objections to writing a check when he wanted to. Like Hal, he had to answer to a partnership that comprised about 40 percent of the whole Yankee pie; unlike Hal, when the Boss annually told his partners to forget about dividends he was mostly tweaking his wealthy benefactors, not depriving them. The 1977 Yankees, dubbed “the Best Team Money Could Buy,” had a total player payroll of about $3.5 million. Even adjusting for inflation, that translated to
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_337" title="337" />
        $13,260,379.54—or, roughly, what the Yankees were scheduled to pay Alex Rodriguez for the first two and a half months of the 2012 season.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees payroll for 2012: $201 million. Plus luxury tax.</p>
      <p class="indent">Privately Hal said: “Having a $200 million payroll every year simply isn’t sustainable, especially when that’s more like two fifty with taxes.” He told confidants it was his goal to reduce Yankees payroll to where it fell under the $189 million tax threshold in time for the 2014 season, at which point the Yankees’ tax bill would be reset and they could count on more flexibility going forward.</p>
      <p class="indent">By the following spring, he went public with that.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m looking at it as a goal, but my goals are normally a requirement,” he said. “Is it a requirement with baseball that we be at $189 million? No. It’s not a requirement. But that is going to be the threshold and that’s where I want to be. That’s a real number and we’re going to be shooting for it.”</p>
      <p class="indent">A few weeks later, he was even more pointed.</p>
      <p class="indent">“How many World Series–winning teams the last ten years had a payroll over 189?” Steinbrenner asked, before answering his own question: “One. Us. In 2009. You don’t need to have a $200 million payroll to do that. I’m a big believer in that.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He was always quick to add something else, though:</p>
      <p class="indent">“We will always—always—field a championship-caliber team.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Hal understood Yankees fans would likely misinterpret these words, so used were they to decades of bottom-line-be-damned spending. But he also knew something else. In 2010 the San Francisco Giants won their first World Series in fifty-six years with a payroll of just under
        <i>$100 million</i>
        . The 2011 champion St. Louis Cardinals weighed in at $105 million. To the Steinbrenner family, it wasn’t outrageous to think the Yankees could figure out a way to win with a payroll $50 million clear of those two teams, and not twice as large.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">In a vacuum, it was perfectly sensible.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Still, after thirty-seven years of George Steinbrenner, a lot of Yankees fans didn’t live in a vacuum, they lived in a bubble. For the first time, you
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_338" title="338" />
        began to hear a refrain that would accompany almost every Yankees season for the next decade and a half.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“If only George were still alive . . .”</i>
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">It is something</span>
        Hal Steinbrenner has had to deal with ever since. His father would sooner have shown up to Yankee Stadium bedecked head to toe in a Red Sox uniform than utter the word “budget,” so there was that. Fact is, Hal is by nature a far more patient soul than his old man ever was, by a multiple of infinity. It was Hal who personally invited Joe Torre to the dedication of George Steinbrenner’s massive plaque in Monument Park in September 2009, officially ending a two-year-old cold war between the team and the man who, five years later, would enter the Hall of Fame largely on the strength of the dynasty he’d helped build in the Bronx.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Hal allowed Joe Girardi to manage the 2017 season after he’d missed the playoffs in three of the previous four years, with one brief wild card appearance. Ironically, it would be after Girardi guided the Yankees to Game 7 of the 2017 ALCS that he approved Brian Cashman’s decision to fire Girardi after ten seasons. In the moment that felt like an old-school Steinbrenner stroke, but in truth insiders around the team believed Girardi’s message had stopped getting across to his clubhouse a few years earlier. If anything, the axing came a few years too late in their view.</p>
      <p class="indent">And when Girardi’s replacement, Aaron Boone, began a habit, early in his tenure, of refusing to rip—or even criticize—his players even after the most egregious losses, he fell out of favor in a lot of precincts, too, his approval ratings plummeting even as he averaged ninety-five wins a year his first six full seasons on the job.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Loosely translated:
        <i>Where have you gone, Billy Martin?</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“If only George were still alive,” some fans grumbled, “he wouldn’t stand for this.”</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          Perhaps no figure in baseball history has seen his reputation more completely sanitized over time than Billy Martin—with the notable exception of George Steinbrenner himself, who by
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_339" title="339" />
          the end of his life was mostly absolved of whatever transgressions had moved Yankees fans to, at various times, fill Yankee Stadium with chants of “STEINBRENNER SUCKS!” and “NO MORE BOSS!” Hal Steinbrenner found this all quite amusing.
        </p>
        <p class="extiz">“There were many years fans weren’t happy with my dad. The door swings both ways,” he told me in 2019. “I absolutely have desire to win. Everyone in my family does, I’m just a little quieter about it.” He smiled. “But that doesn’t mean I won’t throw my shoe at the TV every now and again. Believe me.”</p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">Brian Cashman?</p>
      <p class="indent">Bring up Cashman’s name around a gaggle of frustrated Yankees fans and you’d think Cashman was a piker who’d been bilking the Steinbrenner family for years (twenty-eight of them, as of 2026, an astonishing career when you consider the first twelve came at the pleasure of the Boss), rather than a general manager who, across those twenty-eight seasons, had produced twenty-three playoff appearances.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Anyone can win with the Yankees’ resources,” went the refrain, even when it’s pointed out that among the Mets, Cubs, White Sox, Dodgers and Angels—the five teams, like the Yankees, who inhabit the richest baseball markets—in the twenty-eight years in question, they’d qualified for October only seventeen times. This included thirteen straight from 2013 through 2025. Still, every three years, every four years, Cashman’s contract comes up for review, and every time, Hal Steinbrenner signs up for more.</p>
      <p class="indent">Even though, as of 2025, it was sixteen years since the last championship.</p>
      <p class="indent">“If only George were still alive,” those same fans howl, “he wouldn’t put up with that!”</p>
      <p class="indent">If you point out that, from 1982 through 1994, the Yankees missed the playoffs thirteen straight years while employing eight different general managers . . .</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“Sure. But he cared about winning! Hal doesn’t care! None of the Steinbrenners do!”</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_340" title="340" />
        Well, that’s when Hal Steinbrenner actually gets a little red in the face, and where he’ll raise his voice ever so slightly.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">George Steinbrenner’s trips to New York were often carefully planned and almost always well publicized. Reggie Jackson used to call him “the man with the boats,” and when the man with the boats was on his way to New York it was usually to raise a little hell, to put a manager on notice, to hold one of his Rockne talks in the clubhouse. And then he would be gone. He’d spend most of his time during those trips to New York on the back page, and so it was obvious how much he “cared.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Hal’s trips north are rarely big deals because he makes them frequently.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m in New York at least once a home stand,” he says. “I like talking to the players. I like talking to Cash. And I want to have a feel for what’s going on in the day-to-day. I think it’s possible to be visible without interfering.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        When the Red Sox won their fourth championship in fifteen seasons in 2018, Hal said, “that pisses me off,” and added, “I never want a division rival to outdo us, especially
        <i>that</i>
        division rival.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">It was Cashman who, in the winter of 2023, took umbrage to the notion that the Yankees care any less about winning championships than they ever did under the Boss.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m proud of our people and proud of our process,” he said. “It doesn’t mean we’re firing on all cylinders, it doesn’t mean that we’re best in class. But I think we’re pretty fucking good.”</p>
      <p class="indent">To which Hal said: “I don’t condone the cussing, but I do like the passion. There are too many false narratives out there about our organization, pushed by uninformed and uninvolved people. It is, needless to say, frustrating.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Yankees fans were unmoved. Twice during the 2022 season, Hal was booed before full houses at the stadium, once on the day they retired Paul O’Neill’s number, once when they honored Derek Jeter for making the Hall of Fame. What irked Hal was the perception he didn’t
        <i>care</i>
        as much as his father did. Hal probably doesn’t help his case by refusing to say publicly anything that doesn’t reflect the family’s philosophy about running a baseball team in 2025, which differs wildly from 1996, or 1977.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_341" title="341" />
        “There’s a lot of multibillionaire corporations and owners coming into the game now,” Steinbrenner said in the winter of 2025 after one of those new-age corporations, the one fronting the Dodgers, engaged in an endless spending spree that made even some of the Boss’s vintage binges seem like discount-bin scouring by comparison. “This is not a secondary hobby business for my family.
        <i>This</i>
        is our business. Everything we have is tied up in this. At some point it gets hard for the vast majority of owners to compete with certain things.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“And that includes my family as well.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        He will immediately follow with:
        <i>Show me the year we</i>
        didn’t
        <i>try. Show me the year we punted. Show me the year where we had a losing record</i>
        (and unless you go back to 1992, you can’t). That $189 million goal he’d spoken of so adamantly and for so long? After the Yankees finished out of the playoffs in 2013 he smashed that tote board with a hammer and approved deals for Carlos Beltrán, Brian McCann and Masahiro Tanaka that sent the 2014 payroll soaring to $204 million, no questions asked. A few years later, tired of the distraction that Alex Rodriguez became—both as an aging player and drawing a full-year suspension for steroid use—Hal agreed to pay A-Rod to
        <i>not</i>
        play baseball for a year for the Yankees, simply to make him go away. When the Yankees desperately needed an ace following the 2019 season, he approved a nine-year, $324 million deal for Gerrit Cole, the richest contract ever awarded a starting pitcher.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And, tellingly, when it became apparent in December 2022 that Aaron Judge—fresh off a staggering sixty-two home run season—required one extra year and $36 million more than had already been approved to keep him from jumping to the San Francisco Giants, Hal personally called from Italy to close that deal.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>Of course I care!</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">A year later, there came a two-day period where both sides of this innate juxtaposition were visible.</p>
      <p class="indent">On a Tuesday he said, “I do believe that a team shouldn’t need a $300 million payroll to win a championship.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        And on Wednesday he green-lit a Cashman trade that brought Juan
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_342" title="342" />
        Soto, a twenty-five-year-old outfielder who was among the top five or six everyday players in the sport, and just one year from free agency, to the Yankees from San Diego, nudging the payroll to—naturally—$309 million.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“It’s not often you can say that one player can significantly impact a ball club and increase their chances of winning a championship,” Hal said. “You can say that in this case, however.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The wolves stopped baying for a second.</p>
      <p class="indent">But they were only catching their breath.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
