<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 22</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch22">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_260" title="260" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch22">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch22">Chapter 22</a>
      </h1>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="extt">
          <i>I always knew the job description in New York.</i>
        </p>
        <p class="exti">
          —
          <span class="smallcaps">Buck Showalter</span>
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="noindent">
        <span class="dropcap">T</span>
        he day before Steinbrenner’s
        <i>Sports Illustrated</i>
        issue released, February 28, felt like the last day of freedom before new recruits take a military oath, have their heads shaved and get thrown before the drill sergeant for the first time. It was a lazy Sunday at Fort Lauderdale Stadium. A Yankees official was spotted with his eyes closed, catching twenty winks in the home team dugout. A security guard sat on a stool, breezily thumbing through a newspaper. A young player who didn’t know any better showed up in the locker room in work boots and a flannel shirt, like he’d just finished a jam session with Soundgarden.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">A day later, two of those men would have been fired and the third released. Because a day later, George M. Steinbrenner III would officially be reinstated, restored to power, and a new sheriff—actually, the old sheriff—would roam the town. And he was eager. At exactly 12:01 a.m. on March 1, Steinbrenner appeared on the groundbreaking sports-talk station WFAN in New York and granted a ninety-minute interview to the station’s Yankees reporter, Suzyn Waldman.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m not talking; I’m not talking,” Steinbrenner told Waldman. “I’ve had two and a half years to be quiet, and I don’t know how to talk anymore.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_261" title="261" />
        Later that morning, at ten fifteen, Steinbrenner stepped off a small airplane at Fort Lauderdale Executive Airport and walked by himself the quarter mile from the tarmac to the ballpark next door. When he reached the parking lot at 10:32 he was besieged by 250 media members. The throng moved as Steinbrenner did, through the lot, through a tunnel into the stadium, into the Yankees’ clubhouse, and then, at last, at 11:33 a.m., out of the Yankees’ dugout and into the bright South Florida sun. Don Mattingly and Paul O’Neill were taking their regular turns in the batting cage, oblivious to the gathering din, but even they took pause when the Boss stepped onto the field for the first time in three springs. A smattering of boos cascaded from the crowd of two thousand spectators, and a brief reprise of the “George must go!” chant. All of that was quickly drowned by a thunderous roar. When Steinbrenner approached the chanters and shook their hands, they quickly changed their mantra: “Go, George, go!”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“The Boss,” Mattingly mused, “is back.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“You can’t have something that means so much taken away and not have it mean a lot,” Steinbrenner said. “But the juices are flowing. I want back in the fray.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He was asked how much of an impact his return would have on the club.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Certain things will change and certain things will never change,” he said. “Hopefully I’ve learned from my mistakes. I’m going to be different. You’ll see.”</p>
      <p class="indent">One wise guy with a camera asked, “Have you fired anyone yet?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner waved at the horde around him.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Not yet,” he said. “I can’t get to any of them.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">The question was</span>
        designed to draw laughs, but two men who weren’t terribly amused were Gene Michael and Buck Showalter. Much like Gabe Paul in 1974–75, Michael had been allowed to rebuild a roster without much interference.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">That slice of nirvana was about to vanish.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Boss was quick to give the duo their due on day one. “The players they got were perfect,” he gushed. “This team can win it.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_262" title="262" />
        But as if to remind them they weren’t in the company of a kindly, aloof uncle, he also stressed to the players: “I saw you guys on TV a lot last year. Too many mental mistakes. Those have to stop right now.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Stick called his first meeting with the Boss “very positive.” He, maybe more than anyone who ever worked for Steinbrenner, knew that would be a fleeting feel-good spark.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Those lessons would last,” Michael said, “until the first three-game losing streak.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Opening Day at Yankee Stadium was just as satisfying for Steinbrenner as March 1 had been. He spent the morning playing with a chimpanzee on
        <i>Live with Regis and Kathie Lee</i>
        , zipped over to the stadium, filled his owner’s box with the old eclectic assortment of Page Six names: Donald Trump and Marla Maples, Regis Philbin, Rudy Giuliani, Gay Talese.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I haven’t had a feeling about a team like this since 1977,” Steinbrenner declared to his guests, as he watched the Yankees beat the Royals, 4–1, in front of a packed house of 56,704. Later, he wandered into Showalter’s office.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Not bad,” he said. “Just a few things . . .”</p>
      <p class="indent">Again there was laughter. Again Showalter refrained from it. He and Michael understood the best way to avoid the Boss was to make themselves bulletproof—that meant winning. For the first time in five years, the Yankees were winning lots of baseball games in 1993. On July 17 they crept into a first-place tie with the Blue Jays. Better, every big offseason acquisition worked out perfectly. Paul O’Neill was hitting .331, and had twelve homers thanks to a lefty swing custom-built for Yankee Stadium. Jimmy Key was even better: 12–2 with a 2.25 ERA. After a slow start Wade Boggs hit .310 for two months.</p>
      <p class="indent">New York was officially a Yankees town again. In 1992 the Mets outdrew the Yankees for the ninth straight season. Starting in ’93, they’ve never done that again.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner was mostly true to his word. In late July, at the trading deadline, he’d aired out Michael when the Jays acquired Rickey Henderson from the A’s. That transaction helped Toronto win a second straight title,
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_263" title="263" />
        but Michael had called the A’s several times and tried to see what it would take for them to ship Rickey back to New York. Every time they came back with a list that included at least one or more of the same names.
      </p>
      <ul class="none1">
        <li class="hang">Derek Jeter.</li>
        <li class="hang">Bernie Williams.</li>
        <li class="hang">Mariano Rivera.</li>
        <li class="hang">Jorge Posada.</li>
        <li class="hang">Andy Pettitte.</li>
      </ul>
      <p class="indent">Only Williams’s name was familiar to Yankees fans and then only as a talented but scatterbrained and mistake-prone kid still finding his way in the big leagues. For two and a half years Michael could protect the crown jewels without fear of the Boss going behind his back to ransom them.</p>
      <p class="indent">The storm passed. The Yankees kept winning. On September 4, Jim Abbott—a left-handed pitcher forced to throw that way because he was born without a right hand—tossed a no-hitter against Cleveland at Yankee Stadium. Abbott was a clever acquisition by Michael, and Steinbrenner used one of his favorite terms to describe him all year—Jack Armstrong, the All-American boy—and the next day, the Yankees won again to join Toronto atop the AL East with twenty-four games to go.</p>
      <p class="indent">It wasn’t until September the slumbering giant grunted awake. When he did he went medieval on his team. After Abbott’s no-hitter the Yankees lost five of their next six and the Blue Jays began to pull away from them. After meeting the team in Milwaukee Steinbrenner cleared his throat. He spent twenty minutes with his team. When he left the clubhouse he snarled at reporters, “I have nothing to say.”</p>
      <p class="indent">And then had plenty to say.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m getting to the point where I’m going to be a little disappointed in people,” Steinbrenner said. “I don’t want to say it right now. Let’s see if they rise to the challenge. They’re going to go one way or another. Let’s see if they want it bad enough. It’s nut-cracking time.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        He accused some of his injured players of “jaking it,” still the worst slur
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_264" title="264" />
        a professional athlete can hear. “Hurt is related to character,” he insisted. “I can remember Thurman Munson with half his body black and blue, going out there in 1977.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">These Yankees mostly shrugged off the Boss’s berating, and completed what in just about every baseball circle was a wildly successful 88–74 season trending the right way.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I can’t wait to get to Fort Lauderdale,” Don Mattingly said after the season’s final game. “This team is ready to do some very special things.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Mattingly had been named captain of the Yankees early in 1991, and though quiet by nature he’d taken to the role effortlessly and seriously. One spring day he was on a back field at Fort Lauderdale. When he finished up he and the Yankees’ shortstop of the future, Derek Jeter, began to walk back to the clubhouse. Before they did, Mattingly glanced up at the glassed-in area high in the main stadium where the owner’s office sat.</p>
      <p class="indent">He turned to Jeter—the present captain addressing the future one.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Let’s run it in,” he said. “You never know who’s watching.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">But the Yankees’</span>
        full renaissance would have to wait. Once again, tensions reached a boiling point between the owners and the Players Association, and this time the owners were prepared for nuclear winter.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">This left George Steinbrenner in a peculiar predicament.</p>
      <p class="indent">For the first time in fourteen years, the Yankees were the best team in baseball. When Jimmy Key beat the Twins 12–3 on August 5, 1994, the Yankees moved to 69–38, the best record in the sport, ten games clear of the Orioles. Everything Gene Michael envisioned the Yankees to be was in full bloom. They were a lineup of patient hitters, logging long at bats, exhausting starting pitchers. A few years later, Hall of Fame pitcher John Smoltz would summarize the Yankees perfectly after losing a 1–0 game to them in the World Series: “The team that wouldn’t swing.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Actually, they swung plenty, just rarely at anything but smashable pitches. Paul O’Neill flirted with .400 for three months and was still at .361. Wade Boggs was at .342. Bernie Williams had become a star. Key’s win over the Twins was his seventeenth of the season, putting him on track
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_265" title="265" />
        for the most wins by a Yankee since Ron Guidry’s twenty-five in 1978. Buck Showalter, who spent more than a few nights sleeping on a folding cot in his office, the better to maximize his time figuring ways to give the Yankees an edge, was on his way to winning Manager of the Year.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">They did all of this with an ominous clock ticking toward a 232-day strike that would wipe out the World Series for the first time since 1904.</p>
      <p class="indent">It was a dark time for the grand old game.</p>
      <p class="indent">A darker time for Steinbrenner.</p>
      <p class="indent">It wasn’t just the possibility of losing a chance for his third World Series title. Every game missed cost Steinbrenner close to $300,000 in television revenue.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees began a long association with WPIX/Channel 11 in New York in 1951. That network aired between ninety and one hundred games every year on “free” TV, and offered the Yankees a reasonable annual income based on advertising revenue. Channel 11 made a star of Phil Rizzuto (who would at last earn induction to Cooperstown that summer of ’94). It was the same deal the Dodgers, and later the Mets, had with WWOR/Channel 9. Year after year, that was the rhythm of the baseball summer: Mets on 9, Yankees on 11, and when remote controls became popular in the 1970s it became even easier to watch both teams at once if you were so inclined.</p>
      <p class="indent">In 1979, both the Yankees and Mets signed contracts with Cablevision, a Long Island–based cable company run by Charles Dolan, who’d invented HBO a few years earlier and was among the pioneers in the cable-TV revolution. For about $250,000 a year, Cablevision agreed to telecast games that weren’t committed to the over-the-air channels, shown on another Dolan invention called “SportsChannel.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner, faster than most, realized in the same way baseball players could make fortunes shopping their wares every few years as free agents so, too, could franchises. That could mean scaring up what amounted to an open-air auction on what ballpark—and city—that team chose to play its home games. But it also meant nothing was forever in television, either. By 1982 he was welcoming suitors to bid for his cable package.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_266" title="266" />
        In 1984, Steinbrenner began a regular game of playing WPIX against SportsChannel, decreasing the games available on Channel 11. This made a lot of Yankees fans unhappy, because there were still large chunks of the outer boroughs that weren’t yet wired for cable. His reply: “If we want to have the horses, we have to be able to pay them.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">In 1986 Steinbrenner was spotted taking lunches around town with various executives from Gulf + Western, which owned the Knicks and Rangers as well as Madison Square Garden. Initial buzz was that Steinbrenner was interested in buying MSG, a rumor that had regularly been tossed around ever since Steinbrenner bought the Yankees. Steinbrenner had no intention of that; he was interested in what MSG’s cable arm could offer. His latest deal with SportsChannel would expire in two years. He was open for business.</p>
      <p class="indent">MSG was a more-than-willing dance partner. The Yankees would receive $6.7 million from Cablevision for 1988, but Steinbrenner had an out clause for 1989. Now the two cable networks were arm-wrestling over the Boss. On December 9, 1988, came the bombshell: twelve years, $500 million, an average of $42 million a year, six and a half times what the Yankees were getting from Cablevision. Across baseball, the effect was palpable: The richest team had now gotten an infusion of a half-billion dollars. Now Steinbrenner couldn’t just afford the priciest players; he could correct his personnel mistakes, too, without feeling near as much pain.</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          Steinbrenner insisted MSG would be state-of-the-art when it came to baseball broadcasts. He was true to his word. He approved MSG’s preference to hire Tony Kubek, a former Yankees All-Star shortstop who’d become a star on NBC’s national broadcasts but incurred the Boss’s wrath with regular and pointed criticisms. As far back as 1978 Steinbrenner had tried to have Kubek removed from Yankees games on NBC. And during Kubek’s five years at MSG he regularly offered stinging critiques on-air, and Steinbrenner lobbied MSG not to renew his contract. MSG refused. When Kubek retired, MSG brought in Jim Kaat, a Hall of Fame pitcher who’d played briefly
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_267" title="267" />
          for the Yankees and was every bit as candid as Kubek. In fact, when
          <i>Sports Illustrated</i>
          had the cover of Steinbrenner dressed as Napoleon in 1993, Kaat had a letter published in the magazine two weeks later that said, in part: “There are so many classy owners, executives and players who could have kicked off the 1993 season by appearing on your cover. If baseball . . . represents a lot of what is good in America—reaching the top of one’s profession through hard work, regardless of education and family background—then Steinbrenner represents the opposite. Please do not fall into the trap . . . of publicizing the few who gain notoriety through phony bluster.”
        </p>
        <p class="extiz">Kaat would announce Yankees games for twelve seasons.</p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">The strike caused the first friction between Steinbrenner and his star manager. As it became apparent scabs would be welcome to spring training, Showalter struggled with the idea of working with them, given how much loyalty he demanded from his regular players. That spring, the Detroit Tigers agreed to let Sparky Anderson stay away from camp for as long as replacement players were there. The Blue Jays did the same with Cito Gaston. Orioles owner Peter Angelos, who’d made his fortune repping labor unions, refused to field a replacement team at all. In early February Showalter admitted he was conflicted.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner was unsympathetic.</p>
      <p class="indent">“They can do whatever they want,” the Boss said of Showalter and his coaches. “This is a free country. But when you’re under contract, and accept funds from the person paying you all this time while others are on strike, we expect them to honor their contracts.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Showalter reported, and was miserable all spring, as was everyone else associated with scab baseball as the league marched toward Armageddon. But on March 31, 1995—the day before the season was to start—US District Court Judge Sonia Sotomayor granted an injunction requested by the National Labor Relations Board on a complaint of unfair work practices. There was no deal in place yet, but the players and owners agreed to go back to work on a 144-game schedule.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_268" title="268" />
        Steinbrenner had gone rogue in the final weeks of the strike, allowing players who lived near Tampa to use the team’s minor-league facility. He’d also hired Steve Howe to work the team’s minor-league ticket office as part of his drug rehab aftercare program. Both moves angered the other owners, but Steinbrenner ignored them. If the 1995 season happened at all, he wanted the Yankees to be ready for it.
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">They weren’t ready</span>
        for it.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">They should’ve been better than ’94. Steinbrenner traded for a high-end starter (Jack McDowell) and a high-end closer (John Wetteland). But in late May and June they lost fifteen out of eighteen to fall to 15–24, already ten and a half games behind the Red Sox.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Boss began to percolate.</p>
      <p class="indent">For the better part of three years, Steinbrenner had seethed watching Danny Tartabull underachieve. Tartabull was Steinbrenner’s answer to the Mets signing of Bobby Bonilla in the offseason of 1991–92.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m very disappointed in Tartabull,” he snarled in May. “He has to do a better job. He’s supposed to be a cleanup hitter. He’s under .200 with runners in scoring position. That’s not helping the team.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Michael was already tired of the Boss’s nagging, and while he finally did rid himself of Tartabull—sending him to Oakland in exchange for Rubén Sierra, who would bring his own various dysfunctions to the Yankees—Steinbrenner soon brought another unwanted distraction. Steinbrenner had long coveted Darryl Strawberry, who at one time in the eighties was neck and neck with Don Mattingly as the city’s biggest star. He’d moved on to Los Angeles and San Francisco and was now out of baseball altogether because of drug problems but swore he was clean, and Steinbrenner believed him. He wanted to sign him.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        That transaction fed Steinbrenner’s ever-active fascination with ex-Mets stars. Michael would soon add to it by acquiring David Cone from Toronto for three minor-league pitchers. Strawberry’s impact would be minimal: three homers in ninety-nine plate appearances. Cone’s would be profound: 9–2 in thirteen starts, as the Yankees—left for dead at 53–58 on
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_269" title="269" />
        August 26—suddenly rediscovered some of the magic from 1994, winning twenty-six of their final thirty-three.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">They clinched the first-ever American League wild card on the season’s final day in Toronto. Don Mattingly hit a home run, and after the final out he knelt and punched the ground triumphantly with his left hand before he was mobbed by teammates. Finally, in his fourteenth year of pinstriped service, he’d get a few innings, at least, of postseason. It had been a difficult season for Mattingly, and there’d been increasing speculation that the Yankees were prepared to move on. Mattingly suspected Steinbrenner was behind the talk.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You just don’t kick a guy and spit on him and ‘go get out the door’ type thing,” he said in late August. “I don’t like the way it’s been handled, to tell you the truth. The way I’ve been treated. I feel this might be my last twenty games with the Yankees.”</p>
      <p class="indent">If that was so, Yankees fans were prepared to savor every last at bat. In the sixth inning of Game 2 of the ALDS with the Seattle Mariners, Mattingly rocketed a Tim Belcher changeup deep over the right-center field wall.</p>
      <p class="indent">On TV, broadcaster Gary Thorne yelled “Hang on to the roof!” and inside Yankee Stadium, 57,126 delirious fans tried to blast that metaphorical roof into outer space. There would be a lot of earsplitting moments in that building over the next five years, none quite as sublime as that one. Mattingly played brilliantly, hitting .417 with six RBIs, though the season ended bitterly when the Mariners—managed by old friend Lou Piniella—roared back from an 0–2 deficit and won three straight in Seattle. Edgar Martinez’s two-run double in the bottom of the eleventh inning of Game 5 eliminated the Yanks.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner had one glorious throwback moment during Game 2 at Yankee Stadium. After barking privately about what he perceived as poor umpiring, and after home plate umpire Dale Scott called a borderline strike three against the Yankees’ Dion James, suddenly Steinbrenner parked himself at the back of the press box. The Yankees were playing their second playoff game in fourteen years, but now most of the sportswriters had their backs to the game as Steinbrenner held court.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_270" title="270" />
        “This crew is a disgrace!” he raged. “Where is the home plate umpire from, Oregon? [Scott was—from Eugene.] My geography teacher told me that’s right by Washington.” Steinbrenner, in essence, was accusing Scott of taking a dive for Seattle.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">It went on for ten minutes. Reporters couldn’t help laughing as they furiously transcribed the tirade. “Can any of you tell me Scott is a good umpire?” he asked. It cost him $50,000 once AL president Gene Budig stopped pounding his head against his desk.</p>
      <p class="indent">Everything old was new again.</p>
      <p class="indent">Four days later, as the raucous celebration inside the Kingdome bled through the walls of the visiting clubhouse, Steinbrenner walked into a clubhouse whose occupants looked and felt like a high school football team who’d just lost State. You don’t see many pro locker rooms like this. In the manager’s office, Showalter held his head in his hands. The players looked broken. Some had red eyes. Steinbrenner was moved.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You guys made me very proud,” he said. “And you made yourselves proud.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Later, to reporters, he said, “This group made the Yankees the Yankees again.”</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
