<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="introduction" role="doc-introduction" aria-labelledby="intro">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_x" title="x" />
      </div>
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_1" title="1" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="int_tit" id="intro">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rintro">Introduction</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>I’m not a win-at-all-costs guy. Winning isn’t everything. It’s second to breathing.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—GEORGE M. STEINBRENNER III</p>
      <p class="noindent">
        <span class="dropcap">T</span>
        he first thing I did was look at the clock: 3:27 a.m.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The second thing I did—because this is what you do when the telephone in your hotel room begins to jangle at 3:27 a.m.—was make a mental accounting of loved ones: mother, father, wife, niece, nephew, friends, dog; a ringing telephone at 3:27 a.m. rarely brings good news. I scrambled to turn on the light. I fumbled for the receiver. I reached for my glasses and instead sent them flying across the floor.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Hello?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“You sound like you’re sleeping! Why are you sleeping?”</p>
      <p class="indent">The voice. I knew the voice. Everyone knew the voice.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Mr. Steinbrenner? It’s three thirty in the morning.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I heard you wanted to talk to me. And I’ve been hoping to talk to you. It’s a beautiful morning here in Tampa—and it’s already
        <i>SIX THIRTY</i>
        here. I hope it’s a beautiful morning wherever you are.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        I did want to talk to him, even half asleep in a San Diego Marriott hotel room at 3:27 in the morning, Pacific time, because I’d recently been
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_2" title="2" />
        hired as a sports columnist at the
        <i>New York Post</i>
        and it seemed time to finally have a legit one-on-one with him. I’d actually spoken to George Steinbrenner dozens of times already, mostly in press conferences or in informal gatherings around the batting cage at Yankee Stadium. One time, a few years before, I’d shared an elevator with him at the spring training ballpark that was, at that moment, still called Legends Field and would, some years later, bear his name. He had recently partnered with the New Jersey Nets basketball team and the New Jersey Devils hockey team for a brief corporate alliance called “YankeeNets,” and it felt like a folly. The Nets were chronic losers, but Steinbrenner was excited about his new toy.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“You know, the first team I owned was a basketball team.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“The Cleveland Pipers,” I said, pleased with myself.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Lost my shirt,” Steinbrenner said. “But I loved the game. You know, I was the first owner to ever get a technical foul at a basketball game?”</p>
      <p class="indent">I nodded. I’d heard that story.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Anyway. You watch. We’ll get that ship headed in the right direction. I promise you that. The New Jersey Nets are going to be winners. And soon. Mark my words.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The elevator door opened onto the owner’s level.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I get out here,” he said.</p>
      <p class="indent">Now, two years later, at 3:27 in the morning, George Steinbrenner said, “Remember when I told you the Nets were going to be winners? Do you remember that?”</p>
      <p class="indent">I told him I did. And I knew what had happened in the intervening two years had pleased him greatly. The Nets advanced to the NBA Finals in 2002 and were a few months away from doing the same thing in 2003. If they hadn’t much eaten into the Knicks’ dominant market share in New York, they’d become by far the more enjoyable basketball show in town thanks to a future Hall of Fame point guard named Jason Kidd.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m a man of my word, you know. Now what can I do for you? I’m driving to the office. I have to be there by seven o’clock. That gives you . . . twenty-nine minutes.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_3" title="3" />
        Twenty-nine minutes later, I’d been fully briefed on his expectations for the Nets; for the 2003 Yankees; for the 2004 US Olympic team, which would be competing in Athens, Greece; on the impression that a comic named Larry David—becoming increasingly famous in his own right—had memorably done of him on
        <i>Seinfeld</i>
        years before.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">(“I don’t think it sounds like me,” Steinbrenner said. “But my wife told me, ‘George, that sounds more like you than you do.’”)</p>
      <p class="indent">And, lastly, we discussed the subject I’d called about: his old friend Al Davis. The reason I was in San Diego was because Davis’s Oakland Raiders would that Sunday be playing the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in Super Bowl XXXVII at Qualcomm Stadium. In many ways, Davis’s career owning the Raiders had mirrored Steinbrenner’s with the Yankees. They were both larger-than-life figures, both demanding bosses, and both had enjoyed remarkable sustained success at a time when achieving that in professional sports was becoming rarer and rarer. This would be the Raiders’ fifth Super Bowl appearance under Davis’s stewardship, which dated to 1966, and they won the championship three times. Steinbrenner’s Yankees had won six championships since he took over the team early in 1973, and they’d appeared in nine World Series. Both were unapologetic when it came to quarreling with the press, with their respective sport’s commissioner, with local politicians, with their own players.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Let’s say what you mean,” Davis had told me a few weeks earlier. “Neither of us is afraid to be called an asshole to our faces, and we know that we’re called much worse behind our backs.”</p>
      <p class="indent">That interview had been quintessential Davis. I’d tried for weeks to talk to him, but it wasn’t as simple as merely calling his secretary and making an appointment and then receiving a telephone call at 3:27 a.m. If Davis didn’t know you, you needed to be vouched for. You needed to be vetted. Davis called some people. He had his personal lieutenant, Al LoCasale, call some more. And then, one night, when I was having dinner at a small restaurant in San Francisco with friends in advance of a Raiders– Jets playoff game, the waiter came over to our table.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_4" title="4" />
        “Is one of you Mike Vaccaro?” he asked.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">I said I was.</p>
      <p class="indent">“There’s a phone call for you.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Again: Phone calls in restaurants three thousand miles away from home aren’t generally bearing the news that you’ve won the Irish Sweepstakes. I made the same accounting in my head—parents, wife, friends, dog—and followed the waiter, expecting he’d lead me to a back office, or to a phone behind the bar.</p>
      <p class="indent">We walked to a pay phone. He handed me the receiver.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Hello?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Michael! Al Davis here!”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        And yes: The first few sentences were a little blurry because I kept asking myself,
        <i>How in the hell did Al Davis know when I’d be eating dinner, where I’d be eating dinner, and how did he know the pay phone number, and . . . ?</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But then I just let Al Davis talk, and I simply listened.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I look at what my friend George Steinbrenner has done with the Yankees, and I’ve always said, ‘That’s how it should be done,’” Davis said. “Don’t accept second best from anyone. Don’t settle for excuses. Don’t wait for good things to happen to you. Go out and seize the damned day. I learned that from George. He would have been a damn good football coach if he’d stayed with it, because he’s not only consumed with winning, he’s willing to do the hard things that make winning possible.”</p>
      <p class="indent">I told Steinbrenner that last part, and that instantly made his day, even less than seven hours into that day.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I don’t think you can go that far,” he said softly. “But I do know that Al’s one of the few guys I’ve ever met who may actually care about winning more than I do. Seeing him back in the Super Bowl, back where he belongs, it gives me a great feeling inside.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The coming Super Bowl would be tricky for Steinbrenner. Davis was a close friend. But the Buccaneers represented Tampa Bay, his adopted home for more than thirty years. He was committed to staying neutral, and it killed him to be neutral about anything. Especially a man like Al Davis, in
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_5" title="5" />
        whom he saw so much of himself, right down to the fact that they shared a birthday: July 4 (Steinbrenner in 1930, Davis a year earlier).
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I mean, shit. He’s the guy who invented ‘Just win, baby!’” Steinbrenner said of Davis. “How do you
        <i>not</i>
        love a guy like that?”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Davis: “When George and I get together in a room and talk business . . . baby, we could tape some of those talks and it would be pure gold.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The Buccaneers routed the Raiders in the game, 48–21. The next spring, I saw Steinbrenner at Legends Field, and as he walked away from a media scrum I asked if he’d talked to Davis afterward.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Two days later,” he said. “He apologized when he called back, but he said he’d spent the day after buried in his office for twelve hours, watching the game film. You believe that? All these years later, everything he’s done, and he still acts like a damned coaching intern.”</p>
      <p class="indent">As he told that story, the smile on Steinbrenner’s face grew just a little broader.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Can you imagine?” he said. “Who does that?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Not long after, I told that story to Joe Torre, the Yankees’ manager. He laughed.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I know a guy,” he said.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">George Steinbrenner owned</span>
        the Yankees for more than thirty-seven and a half years, from the moment he was announced as the general partner of the group that purchased the Yankees for $10 million on January 3, 1973, until the day he died on July 13, 2010. He entered the fray young, brash, full of ideas, welcomed as a breath of fresh air from the corporate monolith of CBS, which had owned the Yankees for nine years and lost a small fortune on the club. He exited as a beloved elder statesman who’d twice seen his team rise back to prominence and who’d witnessed, just nine months earlier, his team win a seventh championship on his watch.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        In between, he was, at alternate times, beloved and be-loathed, abhorred and absolved, deified and despised, treasured and trounced, vanquished and venerated, lampooned and lambasted, and likened to an
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_6" title="6" />
        old-school political Boss, capital “B.” He was thrown out of baseball—twice. He once hired a low-level criminal to blackmail his best player. He once hosted
        <i>Saturday Night Live</i>
        . He did a famous beer commercial with a manager he’d just fired, and would go on to hire and fire four more times across the next twelve years. At various times in the eighties and nineties he’d been booed—and worse—at his own ballpark; yet by 1999, as the Yankees finished off a four-game World Series sweep of the Braves, 56,752 people roared, “THANK YOU, BOSS!” over and over, reducing him to tears. He was benevolent and baleful, worshipped and walloped, and fifteen years after his passing, no single name is more regularly brought up when lists of Hall of Fame omissions are discussed than that of George M. Steinbrenner III. And there seems to be growing belief that that will happen some year soon.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">One time, in 2013, I was interviewing James L. Dolan, the owner of the New York Knicks and New York Rangers, who, at the time, was routinely considered to be the worst owner in team sports—by outsiders, yes; but almost unanimously by his own fans, especially Knicks supporters. During a break in our talk, he wondered aloud if any other sports-team owner had ever absorbed the kind of raw vitriol he endured on a daily basis.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Well, all due respect,” I said. “Steinbrenner.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Steinbrenner? When he died it was like they were burying a king.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“At the end he was viewed that way.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“I go to Madison Square Garden and there’s twenty thousand people screaming ‘Dolan sucks!’”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Steinbrenner had you beat. He once had the whole house at Yankee Stadium chant the same thing at him. That was the same day he was kicked out of baseball.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Really?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Really.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Well, then!” Dolan roared, laughing a laugh landscaped by plenty of cigarettes and whiskey in its day. “Maybe they’ll love me when I’m dead!”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        In death, Steinbrenner’s name is never far away from the lips of Yankees fans. When the team goes on a losing streak and no coaches are fired or
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_7" title="7" />
        players released, the immediate reaction from loud segments of the public is always the same: “If only George were still alive. . . .”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Yankees lost a tough best-of-seven and the manager wasn’t fired?</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“If only George were still alive!”</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Yankees have gone fifteen years without a championship and the general manager is still on the job?</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“IF ONLY GEORGE WERE STILL ALIVE!!!”</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Such is the burden inherited by Harold Zieg Steinbrenner, “Hal” to everyone, who runs the Yankees now and burns to win every bit as ferociously as his father did but shows it in a different way.</p>
      <p class="indent">“My father was more about the back pages of the tabloids,” Hal told me the first day I was introduced to him, in 2013. “I’m more about a back room, away from prying eyes. Anyone who thinks I don’t want to win? Well, how does the saying go? ‘Show me you’ve never met me without telling me that you’ve never met me.’”</p>
      <p class="indent">Baseball is different from any other team sport in North America. There is no salary cap, and thus a big-market team—and the Yankees are the biggest of all the big-market teams in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Boston, Philadelphia and Phoenix, by a wide margin—can spend as much money as it pleases in the pursuit of talent. No owner in any sport embraced the era of free agency more than George Steinbrenner, who won his first two championships on the backs of big-ticket stars Reggie Jackson and Goose Gossage and the last of them thanks to the negotiation of nine-figure bonanzas handed out to CC Sabathia and Mark Teixeira. Steinbrenner also had his high-profile misses—there are no songs written about Dave Collins, to name one—and he actually spent brief periods of his ownership threatening austerity; he once almost lost David Cone to free agency because he was obsessing over a few thousand dollars.</p>
      <p class="indent">But on the day he bought the team, one of his closest partners, theater impresario James M. Nederlander, had told him: “George, New York is a star-driven town. Always go for the star.” And to the last, that was his mantra.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Hal also believes in that philosophy. But he is by nature less flamboyant
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_8" title="8" />
        than his father, more publicly reserved, less hungry for attention. He also, more relevantly, operates a baseball team at a different time than his father, one where there is more investment in analytics and cost-effectiveness. The fact is, when the elder Steinbrenner shocked the baseball world by authorizing (while serving the first of his suspensions) a five-year, $3.75 million contract that temporarily made Catfish Hunter baseball’s wealthiest player on New Year’s Eve 1974, it felt like all the money in the world, especially for the time. In 2024 dollars that still translates to only $24 million, which is just $3 million less than what Hal paid in 2023 alone for the services of Carlos Rodón, a starting pitcher who went 3–8 with a 6.85 ERA and who has never on his best day pitched as well as Hunter on his worst.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">When George waited until two of his stars, Bernie Williams and Derek Jeter, played out their six-year entry-level contracts with the Yankees before re-signing them for big money, he was mostly hailed as a shrewd and clever negotiator, willing to let Bernie, for instance, dance with the hated Red Sox before bringing both back into the fold. When Hal did the same thing with Aaron Judge in 2022, he was lambasted as cheap and was even mocked, as Judge’s price tag kept going north that same year as he slammed sixty-two home runs.</p>
      <p class="indent">Different times, different game, different owners.</p>
      <p class="indent">Different men.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I learned a great deal from my father,” Hal says. “But he didn’t teach me to become him, because he didn’t expect me to be.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Together, across more than half a century, the Steinbrenner family has taken what was already the most famous brand in sports and somehow increased it exponentially. That original $10 million investment (of which George’s contribution was $168,000, or less than 2 percent), which, once CBS agreed to buy back the parking garages surrounding Yankee Stadium, was more like $8.8 million? In 2024 the Yankees were appraised in
        <i>Forbes</i>
        magazine at $8.2 billion. With no ceiling in sight. The Dallas Cowboys of the NFL appear atop a few lists citing the most valuable franchises in sports; the Yankees are on top of all the others. There have been various times when people wonder why the family doesn’t just cash out, assuring
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_9" title="9" />
        prosperity for untold future generations of Steinbrenner, and it’s a subject that makes Hal Steinbrenner laugh.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“The Yankees,” he says, “is our family business.”</p>
      <p class="indent">This, then, is a story about one American family business and one city’s fascination with the proprietors of that corner store.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
