<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch10">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_100" title="100" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch10">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch10">Chapter 10</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>It’s a fickle town [New York], a tough town. They get you here, boy. They don’t let you escape with minor scratches and bruises. They put scars on you here.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—Reggie Jackson</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">T</span>
        he player had never exactly been subtle about his intentions or his ambitions. From the time he first visited Yankee Stadium as a twenty-one-year-old Oakland Athletic, Reggie Jackson salivated at the inviting right field porch at Yankee Stadium and conquered it. His very first game there, April 15, 1968, he hit a home run, off Mel Stottlemyre, a mammoth blast that cleared the 407-foot sign in right-center field and landed halfway up the bleachers. Then, afterward, he found himself swarmed by newsmen who wanted to hear all about the 450-foot blast.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I felt Yankee Stadium, all of it,” he told them, although with 58,421 of the park’s 67,000 seats unoccupied that day, he didn’t hear much of it. “Mickey Mantle, Babe Ruth. All those guys. All of it.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Ever a suitor to the moment, Jackson greeted the renovated version of the stadium the same way eight years later, hitting a homer his first game there in 1976, this time as an Oriole, this time in his first at bat of the game, this time against his old friend Catfish Hunter on the day Hunter filmed his Red Man commercial. Later, when the Yankees visited
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_101" title="101" />
        Baltimore’s Memorial Stadium in July, Jackson held court with the New York writers and made little effort to disguise his intentions.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“What’s Graig Nettles doing wearing my number?” he said with a laugh. Nettles wore number 9 for the Yankees. Jackson had worn 9 since his first day in Oakland.</p>
      <p class="indent">He was just warming up.</p>
      <p class="indent">“The next time I sign a contract I’ll be in some deep water. I’ll need a Brink’s trunk with mag wheels and tinted windows all the way around and a candy-apple paint job. When you shop at Tiffany’s there’s no deals. They don’t discount anybody. All cash. They don’t even take credit cards.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Picking up steam now. Someone mentioned New York City.</p>
      <p class="indent">“New York, man,” he said. “I already got deals with Revlon and Puma and Colgate. I had a feeling this was coming one of these days. It was ‘Just wait and be patient.’ The people in New York love me. They love people who put on a show.”</p>
      <p class="indent">And in case anyone was still confused . . .</p>
      <p class="indent">“Steinbrenner?” He was smiling his best Colgate smile now. “Some guys can sell ships. Some guys can sell insurance and some guys can sing songs. I can play baseball.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He could also sell Reggie Jackson.</p>
      <p class="indent">George Steinbrenner was an eager customer.</p>
      <p class="indent">In October, in Kansas City, the two men crossed paths behind the batting cage on a workout day before Game 1 of the ALCS. Jackson was moonlighting as a broadcaster for ABC TV. They spoke briefly. Bob Fishel, a former Yankees PR man who’d followed Lee MacPhail to the American League office, said playfully, “You know I can report this, right?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“We’re just discussing philosophy,” Steinbrenner said.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Actually,” Jackson said, “he’s permitted to tell me New York has great restaurants and lots of fine clothing stores. And I’m permitted to say that ABC is where I work, and Puma. They’re both in New York.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        A week later, at Yankee Stadium for the World Series, Jackson was left off the guest list to a pregame party upstairs in the Yankee Club. A few
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_102" title="102" />
        panicked Yankees officials rectified the situation before he could reach the elevator, but Jackson just smiled at them.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Forget it,” he said. “Next year I’ll own that fuckin’ room.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">This was George Steinbrenner’s</span>
        moment. This was his play. That meeting at Yankee Stadium, the morning after they’d been swept out of the World Series, he listened to his lieutenants’ thoughts. There would be twenty-two players taking part in the first class of free agency, a bonanza that would kick off in November. Steinbrenner knew this was the time to flex the Yankees’ big-market muscle and didn’t plan on being bashful. His partners had already begun to bitch about how often they were asked for cash calls, were already getting frustrated at their modest dividends. A lot had already thrown up their hands, sold their shares back to Steinbrenner. If they were replaced, it was by investors of smaller measure, and quieter voice. It allowed Steinbrenner to consolidate his considerable powers. The Yankees were already making money, thanks to much-improved attendance and a favorable stadium lease that allowed a generous share of parking and concessions. Their improved play yielded fatter deals with both WINS AM radio and WPIX TV, and his advisers promised there would be more, much more, when cable TV, then in its infancy, was properly mined.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">He had money to spend. He intended to spend it.</p>
      <p class="indent">Now it was about identifying the players to whom he would write those checks.</p>
      <p class="indent">Gabe Paul piped up first. In a few weeks he would be named baseball’s Executive of the Year for 1976 by UPI, the crowning achievement of his professional life.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Bobby Grich is the best player,” Paul said of the Orioles’ second baseman, who’d played out his option. “We’re good at second, but he’s got the range to play shortstop, and we desperately need a shortstop.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner wrote down the name.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I agree on Grich,” rasped Billy Martin, puffing a pipe, his voice a scratchy mess since he’d been ejected from Game 4 the night before, one more last-stand fight for a lost cause. “And I also think Joe Rudi would be
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_103" title="103" />
        a perfect fit for us. He gives us a right-handed bat, which we badly need, and he’s a top-notch defensive outfielder.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner nodded.</p>
      <p class="indent">A few more names were tossed out: Don Gullett, the Reds’ pitching ace. Rollie Fingers, Oakland’s shutdown reliever. Wayne Garland, who’d come out of nowhere to win twenty games for the Orioles. Don Baylor, who . . .</p>
      <p class="indent">“What about Reggie?” Steinbrenner asked impatiently.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        He wasn’t really asking. Paul knew he could explain why any of the other players would be better fits and the boss would respond as if he were talking in Japanese. Martin desperately wanted to recite the list of red flags he’d assembled on Jackson through the years, from his ego to the fact that he wasn’t near the fielder Rudi was. But Martin knew anything he said now he’d probably see on the back page of the
        <i>Post</i>
        in June or the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        in August. Maybe sooner.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “Those guys are good,” Steinbrenner said. “But they aren’t
        <i>stars</i>
        .”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The men nodded.</p>
      <p class="indent">“They don’t put fannies in the seats. Reggie Jackson will put fannies in the seats.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The meeting adjourned.</p>
      <p class="indent">The courtship commenced.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">It had to</span>
        be 21, of course. The place gave George Steinbrenner chills because this was where he first became a participant in New York, a
        <i>player</i>
        . This was where New York’s players did their moving and their shaking. Not long before, Steinbrenner took Thurman Munson here, too, to congratulate him for winning the AL’s Most Valuable Player award for his 1976 season (.302, seventeen homers, 105 RBIs) and to take Munson’s temperature. When Munson received the MVP, he’d joked about Steinbrenner promising him a raise. Steinbrenner stood stone-faced and now asked Munson about his comment.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Well, you always said I’d be the highest-paid player on the team besides Catfish,” Munson said. “And I know you’re a man of your word.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_104" title="104" />
        Steinbrenner smiled; he knew he’d probably made that promise at some point, though he couldn’t quite remember it. He told Munson he’d always take care of him.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Now, about Reggie . . .” he said.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Go get the big guy,” Munson said. “He’s the only guy in baseball who can carry a team for a month, and don’t believe all the other stuff. He plays hard.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        With the captain’s endorsement, Steinbrenner flew Jackson to New York the Monday before Thanksgiving. Jackson had heard of 21, knew its reputation, knew enough that he should wear a jacket and tie to this first meeting with Steinbrenner, who brought along a friend, William Fugazy, a limousine magnate and one-man rolodex to the who-est of the who’s whos in New York. Jackson walked inside 21 and thought he’d stumbled into a TGI Fridays: red-checked tablecloths, beat-up chairs, tin jets dangling from the ceiling, uncarpeted floors.
        <i>This</i>
        was where New York’s elite came to meet?
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson ordered a steak. It was overcooked.</p>
      <p class="indent">At lunch’s end, Steinbrenner bypassed the taxi line.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Let’s take a walk, Reggie,” he said.</p>
      <p class="indent">Here is where Steinbrenner allowed New York to do the recruiting. They walked past the Plaza Hotel; as if on cue, the drivers of the horse carriages started calling his name, exhorting him: “See ya in the Bronx, Reggie!”</p>
      <p class="indent">As they walked along Central Park South, cabbies honked their horns. “Sign him, George!” they crowed.</p>
      <p class="indent">Pedestrians pleaded with him to make New York his new home, and a gaggle of schoolkids handed him scraps of paper from their spiral notebooks to sign.</p>
      <p class="indent">“We were falling in love,” Jackson would say. “New York with me, me with New York.”</p>
      <p class="indent">This lovely stroll out of a movie culminated at George Steinbrenner’s apartment on the tony Upper East Side, and that’s where reality splashed both men cold in the face.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_105" title="105" />
        “Reggie,” Steinbrenner said, “we’d like to offer you two million dollars over five years.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Jackson’s thousand-watt smile dimmed. He’d kept this information in his pocket, and he’d nearly forgotten about it as half of Manhattan tried to romance him that day, but his prior meeting had been with Charles Bronfman, one of the world’s wealthiest men, whose two biggest assets were Seagram’s whiskey and the Montreal Expos; his profits from the former had allowed the latter to offer Jackson $5 million if he’d be willing to take his talents north of the border. He wasn’t sure about playing in Canada, and he was less sure about switching leagues, and he
        <i>really</i>
        wasn’t crazy about the weather there.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Still, five mil was five mil.</p>
      <p class="indent">“George,” Jackson said, “what I want is three million dollars. And a Rolls-Royce.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner had to play poker now. The money would be split between yearly salary, deferred payments and annuities. He figured with $200,000 a year as a base, he’d be able to hold off the prone-to-pouting Munson, who wasn’t making
        <i>that</i>
        much less than that. He could nudge it closer. He still didn’t want to take it all the way to three. He told Jackson about all the benefits of living so close to Madison Avenue; Jackson said he understood, but he already was making six figures in endorsements living in California. The men agreed to meet at the O’Hare Hyatt in Chicago two days later.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner managed to keep much of this out of the papers, to the extent that the tabloids all called it “unlikely” Jackson would sign with the Yankees, because they
        <i>had</i>
        heard about Bronfman’s offer. Steinbrenner wanted it that way. By Wednesday, some were lamenting that Steinbrenner, after whiffing on Messersmith a year earlier, might be on the verge of getting shut out since both Grich and Rudi signed with Gene Autry’s California Angels. All the Yankees had to show for this unprecedented baseball auction so far was Gullett, a nice pickup who would’ve helped the club but literally wouldn’t draw one extra fanny to spend a night in a stadium seat.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner felt confident as he walked into the Hyatt . . . until he saw a few of his fellow owners milling about the lobby and realized they weren’t
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_106" title="106" />
        in town to visit the observation deck of the Sears Tower. He’d come hoping Jackson would agree to meet in the middle at $2.5 million and now realized he’d better lead with his best offer. He did: $2.9 million.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“What about the Rolls, George?”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner grabbed a cocktail napkin, wrote down the details. And the final official figure: $2.96 million, with the sixty grand added on to cover the car. Jackson took the napkin, scrawled,
        <i>I will not let you down. Reginald M. Jackson.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner kept that paper linen under glass in his office the rest of his days. He’d bagged his star—or, as Jackson himself preferred to be called, his “superduperstar.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“He hustled me, man,” Jackson would say a week later inside the Versailles Terrace Room of the Americana hotel. He wore a Yankees cap and a brass-buttoned three-piece suit of gray flannel as he was officially welcomed to the Yankees. He had black alligator shoes, sported a bracelet with his name spelled in gold and made sure to wear one of the championship rings he’d earned in Oakland. “George Steinbrenner outhustled everyone else. He dealt with me as a man and as a person. I feel like I’m a friend of his. He’s like me. He’s a little crazy, and he’s a hustler.”</p>
      <p class="indent">On the grandest day of his nearly four years owning the Yankees, with his entire plan falling into place just as he’d planned it, Steinbrenner opted for humility: “Anyone can sell New York. That’s really all I sold him.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Munson, the captain, was there, as was Roy White, the longest-tenured Yankee. Together they put the cap on Jackson’s head and helped him into a pinstriped Yankees jersey, interlocking “NY” on the left breast and a temporary number, 42, on the back.</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          Jackson knew he was never really going to pry number 9 away from Graig Nettles, a mostly easygoing man who’d grown to appreciate his kinship with another Yankee 9, Roger Maris. Jackson initially requested number 42 to honor Jackie Robinson before concluding, twenty years ahead of the rest of baseball, “There should only be one forty-two.” He’d always admired how regal the
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_107" title="107" />
          number 44 looked on the backs of Henry Aaron and Willie McCovey; it was available—no prominent Yankee had ever worn it before. And it now hangs in Monument Park and will never be worn by another Yankee.
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">It was all smiles and hugs, and in his prepared remarks everyone heard a Jackson who was humble, grateful, eager to fit in.</p>
      <p class="indent">Later, as Jackson chatted up a smaller group of writers, Munson and White overheard—and then read—something else entirely: call it the first riff of Jackson’s Yankees career.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I didn’t come to New York to become a star. I brought my star with me.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        He delivered all sixteen words with what one of the men around him, columnist Dave Anderson of
        <i>The New York Times</i>
        , would call “perfect notebook speed.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">White looked at Munson. Munson looked at White.</p>
      <p class="indent">They rolled their eyes.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Billy Martin wasn’t</span>
        at the Americana. He wasn’t invited and didn’t much want to be there anyway. He was still angry at Steinbrenner, and watching him escort Jackson around the city didn’t help his mood much. Living in the Sheraton Hotel across the river in Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey, Martin seethed as a player he didn’t want began a platonic love affair with an owner he was beginning to mistrust.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“George was taking Reggie to 21 for lunch, going out to dinner, and I was sitting in my room and he never once called and asked me to come to lunch with him,” Martin fumed.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The storm was gathering, and it was headed for Fort Lauderdale, which promised to be the most interesting spring training in baseball history, and it would be George Steinbrenner who would play the part of Jim Cantore, right in the middle of every hurricane, every tornado, every monsoon, every blizzard. Before the Yankees could even make it to Florida Steinbrenner had to deal with a disillusioned Munson, who took
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_108" title="108" />
        to the offseason banquet circuit to lob grenades. Steinbrenner was treated to the first with his morning coffee one morning in February: “I wouldn’t mind being traded to Cleveland [near Munson’s home of Canton, Ohio], or buying out my contract so I can go to Cleveland.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner summoned Munson to New York. Munson accused Steinbrenner of misleading him with the Jackson contract. Steinbrenner let Munson rant, then met with him later that day. They reached an agreement: Steinbrenner would add two years to his deal and would allow Munson to live in the offseason in Ohio. As a way to compromise his own feelings about spending so much time apart from his family, Munson began to ponder his options. One day, walking out of Fort Lauderdale Stadium with Lou Piniella, he took a long look at a Beechcraft Duke aircraft parked at the executive airport next door, and his imagination began to whirl.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I think I’m going to start taking flying lessons,” Munson said. “I can get home on off-days that way.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Piniella figured he was kidding.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Graig Nettles was</span>
        up next. In the middle of the 1976 season, with Nettles struggling, Steinbrenner nevertheless signed him to a three-year deal to head off free agency. But then Nettles unhappily saw the new level of riches the Seitz decision yielded. Nettles also failed to seek proper advice on how to deal with his new income, didn’t shelter it properly and got killed by his tax bill. He tried to renegotiate, but Steinbrenner refused and took to the back pages to hammer his point home. Nettles jumped the team for two days in spring training. Steinbrenner fined him, threatened to trade him. Nettles returned and, at Steinbrenner’s insistence, read a public apology for ditching the team.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“This was pretty goddamned important,” Steinbrenner said, “because a lot of players might have gotten into their heads that these contracts are unilateral.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Nettles, chastened, was asked to respond. He simply waved the apology that was still in his hand.</p>
      <p class="indent">“All I want to say,” he said, “is what’s on this fuckin’ paper.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_109" title="109" />
        It was only March, and the tempests were everywhere, but Steinbrenner figured maybe the worst was over. He had no idea he was only watching minor squalls.
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Not everyone lauded</span>
        the Yankees’ merry band of baseball mercenaries. A few weeks before the Yankees were due in spring training came a most public rebuke of George Steinbrenner’s methods by a man named Joseph Iglehart, a holdover from the CBS days who’d signed on for a 5 percent share when Steinbrenner bought the club. Previously he’d been the chairman of the Baltimore Orioles and hired Lee MacPhail there; for three years he’d been the most active and visible of all of the minority partners. But he was gravely concerned about Steinbrenner’s spending habits, particularly with Jackson.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I told George I was mad at the whole damned thing,” Iglehart said. “If we can’t sign players for reasonable salaries I don’t want to be a part of it anymore.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The men parted on good terms, and Steinbrenner happily bought out Iglehart’s share, which further increased his grip on the team. As he departed, Iglehart issued a warning shot that could’ve doubled as a horoscope reading.</p>
      <p class="indent">“One of the really big problems with the Yankees,” he said, “will be how the three biggest egoists in baseball—George Steinbrenner, Billy Martin, Reggie Jackson—get along.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">He walked into</span>
        the home clubhouse at Fort Lauderdale Stadium carrying an equipment bag that bore the logo of the Oakland Athletics, and from the moment he unpacked it Reggie Jackson began filling reporters’ notebooks.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m not just a ballplayer,” he said. “I’m a multifaceted person, a myriad of personalities. I’m a businessman who happens to be an athlete. I’ve got my case here, my files, my tools.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The Yankees who’d played with him in Oakland greeted him warmly. Catfish Hunter embraced him, then joked about getting mustard on his hands after hugging such a hot dog. Ken Holtzman pitched his first round
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_110" title="110" />
        of batting practice and “accidentally” hit Jackson in the side with his first offering.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I hope George has paid up the insurance!” Jackson laughed.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The rest of the team was distant. It was subtle, mostly. Thurman Munson walked in and barely acknowledged him. The rest of the Yankees took their cue from the captain. They weren’t freezing him out. But they’d also seen the comments Jackson made a few weeks earlier on the ABC program
        <i>The Superteams</i>
        , where he’d volunteered there’d probably be jealousies and other petty human frailties to deal with and mentioned Munson by name. The Yankees were one of the participants in the show, but Jackson spent most of his time with the TV folks. He’d quickly tried to walk all that back, but a clubhouse has a long memory; the Yankees were hoping Jackson would make the first move. That first day—a lot of days that followed—Jackson instead chose to keep collecting neat sound bites.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Part of the reason they pay me is this,” he said. “I like living in this environment. They’re looking for me here. I’m the hunted. I’m the hunted on the team of the hunted.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        As those first weeks passed, the early chill became a full frost. One night, after another day when he was removed from all the banter and ball-breaking that constitute a clubhouse, Jackson walked into a Fort Lauderdale restaurant. He had a meeting with a reporter for
        <i>Sport</i>
        magazine named Robert Ward. Ward had some questions for Jackson. And Jackson, he had some answers for Ward.
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Still, most of</span>
        the spring, whatever unease was percolating below the surface with Jackson remained muted. It was Billy Martin’s growing uneasiness with George Steinbrenner that became the issue. One day, sitting in the Yankees’ dugout, Steinbrenner was chatting about his colt, Steve’s Friend, which had just won the Florida Derby and was likely to enter the Kentucky Derby in May. Martin wheeled and faced Steinbrenner.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“In this dugout,” he snapped, “we only talk baseball.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner opted not to tell Martin who actually
        <i>owned</i>
        the dugout.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_111" title="111" />
        Steinbrenner planted himself at spring training and was around the club every day and didn’t like what he was seeing. The Yankees were losing, for one thing, often looking like they were treating the games with half interest.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“It’s spring training, George,” Martin reminded him after one panicked postgame visit to the manager’s office. “You don’t want to leave your best baseball in Florida.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner, the ex–football coach, couldn’t understand why Martin wasn’t punishing the Yankees by making them run stadium steps after a tough loss to the Tigers in Lakeland, why he wouldn’t threaten to make them walk home after dropping one to the Red Sox in Winter Haven. It infuriated him that Martin and his coaches drove to road games rather than sit on the team bus. Martin argued it offered time to better assess players and the team privately; Steinbrenner believed his manager should sit in the front row of the bus like Woody Hayes.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner stewed and simmered. The Yankees kept losing. He boiled, and broiled, and . . . finally, on March 26, he blew.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees lost to the Mets in St. Petersburg, 6–0. The game was telecast back to New York on the Mets’ station, WWOR/Channel 9, and with every passing inning Steinbrenner envisioned a vast traffic jam eastward over the Triboro Bridge, Bronx to Queens. The Yankees actually surpassed the Mets in season ticket sales for the coming season for the first time since 1963—even in ’76, while the Yankees drew more fans, the Mets had a larger base—but that didn’t matter to Steinbrenner. The Mets humiliated the Yankees, and Channel 9 reported it was its largest baseball audience ever.</p>
      <p class="indent">After the game, Steinbrenner stormed into the visiting clubhouse. Martin was sitting in a corner, drinking a beer with Mickey Mantle.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I want to talk to you!” Steinbrenner roared.
        <i>“Now!”</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">In that moment, to Martin, Steinbrenner was every other punk who’d ever approached him in a bar looking to get his name in the papers, scaring up a fight.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_112" title="112" />
        “Get the fuck out of here, George! How dare you yell at me in front of my players!”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I’ll yell at you wherever the hell I want!”</p>
      <p class="indent">“No, you won’t. Not here.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Oh, really? Do you want to be fired right here?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“If that’s what you want to do, George, then fire me.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The two men retreated to the trainer’s room. There was a bucket of ice water on a desk; at one point Gabe Paul feared Martin might take a swing at Steinbrenner, but instead he punched the water, and it splashed all over Paul, who must have wondered how he’d found himself in the middle of this odd baseball sitcom. Steinbrenner stormed out. Later, he called Yogi Berra and told him he was going to replace Martin as manager.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Not a chance, George,” Berra answered.</p>
      <p class="indent">Within a few days, Steinbrenner calmed down and Martin did, too. Martin, knowing he’d have amped his players’ routine up anyway, agreed to take the rest of the spring games more seriously.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner said, “I think we’ll have some arguments along the way that will wind up being a lot worse than that.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">What killed Martin</span>
        was, Steinbrenner was right. The Yankees
        <i>did</i>
        play all spring like a team enjoying its press clippings. And much to the manager’s dismay, that carried into the season. The Yankees stumbled out of the gate 2–8, including back-to-back losses to the expansion Toronto Blue Jays (run by Pat Gillick, Gabe Paul’s former lieutenant, a fact not lost on Steinbrenner). Martin went with an old standby, having Reggie Jackson pick names out of a cap to build a batting order and break the slump, and it worked. The Yankees immediately won six straight, lost one (at which point he reverted to his original lineup) and won five more in a row.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">There was always a fissure waiting just below the surface. In late April, on the Yankees’ first West Coast swing, Martin grew frustrated at the lack of left-handed bats on his bench. Steinbrenner demanded the Yankees carry only two catchers, so veteran Elrod Hendricks was sent to Syracuse against Martin’s wishes.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_113" title="113" />
        “George and Gabe must think I’m kidding,” he said. “Why are we going with twenty-four players? Are we that friggin’ great?”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner immediately announced that he was fining Martin $2,500, and for an ever-so-brief moment, that actually seemed to unify the Yankees: Jackson offered to pay the fine.</p>
      <p class="indent">Catfish Hunter said, “This reminds me of the Oakland clubhouse. There are going to be fights soon.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He was right. He just had the wrong combatants.</p>
      <p class="indent">By May 23, the Yankees were 21–17 and welcomed the Red Sox to the Bronx for the first time. In the bottom of the seventh, trailing Bill Lee 2–1, Jackson provided his first genuine Yankee Moment by drilling a Lee fastball over the right field wall to tie the game. Jackson admired it, toured the bases, drank in the adulation from the 31,261 fans, touched home plate and headed for the dugout.</p>
      <p class="indent">But instead of going in the side nearest to home plate—where his teammates and manager gathered to greet him—Jackson went to the extreme opposite side, where all that awaited was an empty bench. He did this in full view of television cameras and at least half the stadium crowd.</p>
      <p class="indent">Afterward, Jackson explained, “My hand was hurting.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Thurman Munson replied: “His hand? He’s a fucking liar. How’s that for a quote?”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        It wasn’t the hand. That morning, the latest issue of
        <i>Sport</i>
        magazine had been published. The conversation Jackson had with Robert Ward early in spring training, when he most felt like a disgraced West Point cadet enduring The Silence from the rest of the corps, was the centerpiece of the issue.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“This team, it all flows from me. I’m the straw that stirs the drink. Maybe I should say me and Munson, but he can only stir it bad.”</p>
      <p class="indent">With those twenty-eight words, a line had been drawn. And Jackson was now the only person standing on the other side of it. There was a Yankees backup catcher named Fran Healy who’d befriended Jackson and was serving as something of a conduit to Munson. Healy, trying to foster a truce, told Munson, “Maybe what Reggie said was taken out of context.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_114" title="114" />
        “For six fuckin’ pages?” Munson raged.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">This was clear: If Jackson had previously just been paranoid that his teammates didn’t like him, he was a full-blown pariah now.</p>
      <p class="indent">The next day, Steinbrenner went to Martin’s office and closed the door. There’d been some stories in the papers that Steinbrenner insisted to Gabe Paul that Martin had to go.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner assured Martin, “I’m on your side here.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin appreciated that.</p>
      <p class="indent">“But, Billy,” Steinbrenner said. “You have to fix this shit. And soon.”</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
