<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch8">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_76" title="76" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch8">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch8">Chapter 8</a>
      </h1>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="noindent1">GEORGE STEINBRENNER: You know, a lot of people think Billy and I argue all the time. Actually, we agree on just about everything, right, Bill?</p>
        <p class="noindent">BILLY MARTIN: You betcha, George.</p>
        <p class="noindent">GEORGE: We even drink the same beer!</p>
        <p class="noindent">BILLY: Lite Beer from Miller! Lite’s got a third less calories than their regular beer, and it’s less filling.</p>
        <p class="noindent">GEORGE: And the best thing is, it tastes so great!</p>
        <p class="noindent">BILLY: No, George, the best thing is it’s less filling.</p>
        <p class="noindent">GEORGE: No, Bill, it tastes great.</p>
        <p class="noindent">BILLY: Less filling, George.</p>
        <p class="noindent">GEORGE: Billy, it tastes great!</p>
        <p class="noindent">BILLY: Less filling, George!</p>
        <p class="noindent">GEORGE: Billy?</p>
        <p class="noindent">BILLY: Yeah, George?</p>
        <p class="noindent">GEORGE: You’re fired.</p>
        <p class="noindent">BILLY: Not again!</p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">I</span>
        t was Michael Burke who first envisioned Billy Martin in pinstripes. Whenever Martin would come to New York—with the Minnesota Twins in 1969, later with the Detroit Tigers beginning in 1971—Burke invited him to lunch. Burke admired the way Martin led the Twins to
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_77" title="77" />
        ninety-seven wins and the AL West pennant in his year there, an eighteen-win improvement over 1968. Burke noted how the 1971 Tigers won ninety-one games, a twelve-game upgrade over 1970. When the Tigers visited New York in late May 1972, the Yankees were already scuffling. The Tigers were at the top of the division, in a year when they would win the AL East by half a game over the Red Sox, but Martin was already beginning to feel his chronic restlessness and was generally unhappy with his relationship with the Tigers’ front office. Burke sensed that, took note of it, and on the ride back to Yankee Stadium began to wonder if maybe it was time for the Yankees to ask if the Tigers would be open to a deal for Martin. Burke walked into Lee MacPhail’s office.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“What do you think about Billy Martin?” Burke asked him.</p>
      <p class="indent">MacPhail was midway through a career that would land him in the Hall of Fame. There, he would join his father, Larry, a colorful character who in World War I had taken part in an unsanctioned (and unsuccessful) mission to arrest Kaiser Wilhelm II and bring him to the Paris Peace Conference; for his troubles MacPhail helped himself to one of the Kaiser’s ashtrays. He later helped build pennant winners in both Cincinnati and Brooklyn and, after World War II, briefly partnered with Del Webb and Dan Topping in the Yankees ownership group. The MacPhails remain the only father/son duo in Cooperstown. The elder MacPhail was also a raging alcoholic whose booze-fueled rants ultimately landed him out of baseball far too soon, and when he was fired as president of Bowie Race Track in 1953 after only thirteen months on the job for “drunk and disorderly conduct,” he never worked in sports again.</p>
      <p class="indent">That, understandably, left a deep impression on Lee, and it wasn’t exactly a secret to anyone in baseball that Martin long held a similar affinity for boozy late nights.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I don’t think it would be a good idea,” MacPhail quietly told Burke.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Inevitably, Martin wore out his welcome in Detroit and he was fired early in September 1973. His name immediately surfaced in the New York newspapers as a potential replacement for Ralph Houk (though Steinbrenner vowed Houk would stay on for 1974, unaware that Houk had different
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_78" title="78" />
        ideas), or even Yogi Berra, though the Mets soon rescued Berra’s job with their run to the pennant. Besides, it was presumed Martin was reluctant to replace Berra, as the two were still friends from their time as teammates in the 1950s (as we’ll see, that small detail wouldn’t get in Martin’s way twelve years later).
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Instead, with twenty-three games left in the season, Martin headed to Arlington, Texas, to manage the hapless Texas Rangers, who would finish 57–105 and draw less than 700,000 to their ballpark. Just as inevitably, Martin sparked an immediate turnaround. In ’74 the Rangers won eighty-four games—a remarkable plus-twenty-seven—and kept the Rangers in the AL West hunt most of the year before settling for second, five games behind Oakland. Even more notably attendance nearly doubled, to just under 1.2 million. This time felt different, too. He immediately took to the Texas lifestyle, and the Berkeley, California, native fashioned himself a baseball cowboy, replete with boots, hat, bolo tie, mustache and a deep affinity for country music. His longtime friend and perennial drinking buddy Mickey Mantle lived nearby, in Dallas. The Rangers were a young team on the rise with the 1974 MVP (Jeff Burroughs), Rookie of the Year (Mike Hargrove) and Cy Young runner-up (Fergie Jenkins) anchoring the roster, which seemed custom-built for Martin, who figured on spending years in North Texas.</p>
      <p class="indent">He lasted ninety-five more games.</p>
      <p class="indent">The same patterns of behavior that shadowed him in Minnesota and Detroit crushed him in Texas. He openly warred with the front office (a problem expedited in Arlington by the fact that the man who hired him, Bob Short, promptly sold the club to Brad Corbett, a thirty-six-year-old multimillionaire who’d made his fortune in plastic piping).</p>
      <p class="indent">“I don’t tell him how to make pipes,” Martin decreed late in his time in Texas. “He shouldn’t tell me about baseball.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        He picked unnecessary feuds. At each of his stops there were some Black players who played for him who thought if Martin wasn’t quite a full-blown racist he didn’t always hold all players to the same standards. In Texas, toward the end, he was known to bring companions who weren’t
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_79" title="79" />
        his wife on road trips, which led to some hard-to-forgive accusations that Martin’s attention span was prone to drifting.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Then there were saloons, where too often Martin would wind up confronting his own equally well-watered players. When he managed the Twins, he had an alleyway confrontation outside a Detroit bar called Lindell AC with a Twins pitcher named Dave Boswell. Martin punched him against a wall; later he was asked what occurred next.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Well, when he came off the wall, I hit him again.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Three years later, in another Detroit tavern, this time the Leland Hotel, Martin had another angry encounter with one of his players, a young outfielder named Ike Blessitt, after Blessitt refused to give a ride home to a woman—actually, a sixteen-year-old girl—with whom Martin was talking. (Blessitt, who was Black, decided it would not be a good idea in 1972 suburban Detroit to be giving a white teenage girl a lift at night; he called her a cab instead.) Martin accused him of insubordination. Police were called. Both men were arrested and fined $32 each for disturbing the peace.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        In Texas, the inevitable encounter happened not in a bar but at thirty thousand feet, after the Rangers were eliminated from the 1974 pennant race and flying to Kansas City for the season’s final week. Martin already helped himself to a handful of small bottles of whiskey and spotted the Rangers’ longtime traveling secretary, Burt Hawkins (who, in a past life as a newspaperman, was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize for his work with
        <i>The Washington Star</i>
        ). Hawkins’s wife had created a “wives club” for the Rangers’ spouses, a stone in Martin’s shoe; he thought team planes and road hotels should be off-limits to all but players.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“You need to shut your wife up,” Martin sneered.</p>
      <p class="indent">Hawkins, fifteen years Martin’s senior, threw a punch. Martin blocked it. The men were quickly separated, and Martin actually apologized the next morning. But another notch had been added to Martin’s belt.</p>
      <p class="indent">Thus, Lee MacPhail to Michael Burke: “I don’t think it would be a good idea.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        A little over three years later Gabe Paul was filled with similar dread the morning of July 23, 1975, when he saw in the morning papers that Martin
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_80" title="80" />
        had finally been axed in Texas. Paul was as plugged-in as any man in baseball; he quickly learned that Martin’s last stand was a doozy: As the Rangers cruised to a 6–0 win over the Red Sox, Martin called the press box directly before the seventh-inning stretch and ordered them to play John Denver’s “Thank God I’m a Country Boy.” Martin and Texas owner Brad Corbett argued about this all season; Corbett preferred the traditional “Take Me Out to the Ball Game.” As Corbett stood and waited to sing about buying some peanuts and Cracker Jack, trying to enjoy a rare night of pleasure in a tough season, he heard “Well, life on the farm is kinda laid back, ain’t much an old country boy like me can’t hack . . .”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Corbett fired Martin at game’s end.</p>
      <p class="indent">Paul laughed at the absurdity of it all.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then his phone rang. It was George Steinbrenner.</p>
      <p class="indent">He wasn’t calling with a stock tip.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">What may be</span>
        hard to understand is when George Steinbrenner, who was born into wealth and comfort in upper-middle-class Ohio to a demanding father, saw Billy Martin—born into poverty in the poor section of Berkeley, California, abandoned by his father as an infant—he saw much of himself. The two men were fueled by ambition. Steinbrenner was forever trying to prove his mettle as Henry Steinbrenner’s son, as a student, as a sportsman, as a businessman; Martin was forever trying to prove he belonged in the big leagues despite looking like a bantamweight.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “Some people have a chip on their shoulder,”
        <i>Los Angeles Times</i>
        columnist Jim Murray once wrote. “Billy has a whole lumberyard.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Both were quick to anger and uncontrollable rages, especially when they believed they were in the right and, often, thanks to a shared stubborn streak, when they were wrong. Both men had galactic egos, which sometimes proved ruinous but just as often allowed them to fulfill the preposterous dreams they’d crafted for themselves.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Both enjoyed the reputations they developed as fighters willing to occasionally cross boundaries to stand up for what was right, and both were reluctant to allow those images to be compromised when their softer sides
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_81" title="81" />
        would emerge. Some fifteen years after George Steinbrenner’s death, stories would still regularly surface about Steinbrenner’s bountiful kindnesses, financial and otherwise, many of which he refused to publicize. And Martin was fiercely loyal, almost to a fault, and would regularly find himself seeking penance both within and without a confessional booth for his missteps. When Martin was young and often hungry, in the teeth of the Depression, he became expert at pilfering fruit from the pushcarts on Berkeley’s San Pablo Avenue. Years later, after he’d made a little money, he figured how much he’d stolen and one offseason handed each merchant the equivalent in cash of what he’d taken as a child. That story only became public when one of the men he’d reimbursed called around in the aftermath of one of Martin’s public blowups, demanding equal time.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Mostly, the men bonded over one thing.</p>
      <p class="indent">“All we cared about was winning,” Steinbrenner said in 1994, five years after Martin died in a Christmas Day car crash.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Winning was breakfast, lunch and dinner for Billy. And for me.”</p>
      <p class="indent">On the day Michael Burke formally cut ties with the Yankees partnership agreement, when the rancor between him and Steinbrenner finally dissipated and Steinbrenner felt comfortable enough to talk to him once again as a baseball neophyte seeking counsel from an established elder, he’d asked, “When the time comes to find Houk’s replacement, who would you suggest?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Burke immediately answered, “Billy Martin.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Get him at the first chance,” Burke urged. “Billy’s driving ambition is to become the Yankees’ skipper and baseball’s first hundred-thousand-dollar manager. He’ll be difficult to work with. But as soon as he’s free, I’d get Billy.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Billy was free.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        And Gabe Paul realized that he was going to have an impossible time fending off Steinbrenner once Steinbrenner fixed his attention on Martin. If Bill Virdon—quiet, unemotional, an umpire-baiter only in the most extreme, egregious examples—was counter to everything Steinbrenner the ex–football coach coveted in a manager, then Martin was the ideal
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_82" title="82" />
        blueprint. He liked to outthink and outwit opposing managers, and was never shy about explaining every angle of his wisdom on the record when those plans worked out on the field as they had in his head.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “Good managers think two or three hitters ahead of the game,” longtime Yankees outfielder Roy White once said. “Billy thinks two or three
        <i>innings</i>
        ahead.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Martin also wasn’t afraid to rip his own players if they deserved it, and never anonymously; once, with the Tigers, he’d actually replaced his All-Star left fielder, Willie Horton, in the middle of an inning when the manager believed the player loafed after a fly ball.</p>
      <p class="indent">(Dramatic foreshadowing: There’s a chance you’ll hear about a similar type of incident in the pages to follow.)</p>
      <p class="indent">And as for umpires . . .</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “They’re out to get me,” he told
        <i>Sports Illustrated</i>
        in a cover story that ran three months before he was fired in Texas. “Two National League umpires asked me in spring training why the umpires in my league were all out to get me. And if they’re out to get me, it will be very difficult for my ball club to win this year. I’ve got to protect my team.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Martin argued with umpires. He heckled them. He challenged them, especially young, green umpires, to see who would fight back and who would quaver with anger and quiver with intimidation. He feuded with some. He openly disdained an American League umpire named Ron Luciano, once declaring: “I don’t want him fined, I want him
        <i>fired</i>
        .” He would get kicked out of both ends of a doubleheader before a pitch was thrown just to prove a point. He once ordered his Tigers pitchers to throw nothing but spitballs after umps refused to eject admitted spitballer Gaylord Perry as he was shutting down Detroit.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">All of that was catnip for George Steinbrenner.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        And when the 1975 Yankees continued to slide as July melted into August, the calls to Gabe Paul became more frequent, until Paul agreed at last to talk to Martin. Martin was hard to find at first; after his firing he’d taken his family to a quiet outpost in western Colorado to fish and decompress and stay away from a phone that was ringing off the hook inside
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_83" title="83" />
        the Martin home back in Arlington. But when Paul kept frantically calling Martin’s lawyer, Eddie Sapir, Sapir realized this was a meeting his client had to take, no matter how disillusioned Martin might be. Because Martin always fashioned himself as a Yankee. He’d become an unlikely star on four Yankees championship clubs and been at his best in October, including hitting 12-for-24 with an astonishing OPS of 1.478 in the 1953 World Series against the Dodgers. That followed a year after he’d come dashing in from out of nowhere to grab a Jackie Robinson pop-up at his shoe tops with the bases loaded in Game 7, a play that saved
        <i>that</i>
        series for the Yankees.
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          There is no way the great
          <i>New York Post</i>
          columnist Jimmy Cannon could have possibly understood the enormous irony when he quietly dubbed Martin “Mister October” deep inside a column during the ’53 series. But we will soon surely laugh together at that one with the benefit of 20/20 hindsight.
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">
        Martin’s time with the Yankees ended traumatically for him, and served as a harbinger for so much of what would follow. On May 15, 1957, a day before his twenty-ninth birthday, Martin (who was single) was feted by teammates Yogi Berra, Hank Bauer, Mickey Mantle, Whitey Ford, Johnny Kucks and their wives with a night on the town. That culminated after midnight at the Copacabana, the best-known nightclub in New York in those years, where they caught the last show there by Sammy Davis Jr. At some point, someone at a neighboring table—a team of bowlers from Washington Heights and
        <i>their</i>
        wives—drunkenly yelled a racist remark at Davis. Bauer, an ex-Marine, took exception, and things grew increasingly heated as the bowlers started heckling the Bombers. Finally, it was Martin who suggested if the two parties had an issue they should take it outside. The bowlers agreed, to their immediate regret: They were pummeled. When one of them came to, he called the cops. It was Bauer, not Martin, who was charged (though later cleared). Sixty-three years later, a man named Joey Silvestri admitted to
        <i>The New York Times</i>
        that he’d been the one who knocked out Edwin Jones, a
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_84" title="84" />
        forty-two-year-old delicatessen owner and lifelong Yankees fan, with two quick punches. To best describe “Joey at the Copa’s” job, think of the man who Henry Hill dukes $50 in the movie
        <i>Goodfellas</i>
        to bypass the velvet rope and get choice seats for the Jerry Vale show. That was Silvestri in real life.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“There were no Yankees involved in the fight,” said Silvestri, coming clean in 2020. “Nobody threw a punch but me.”</p>
      <p class="indent">But Silvestri was unavailable to offer witness testimony to Yankees GM George Weiss in 1957, when Weiss was gravely concerned Martin was being a negative influence on Mantle and Ford, his two closest friends. The fact Martin wasn’t charged was just an annoying detail to Weiss. It was all the ammunition he needed. He traded Martin to the Kansas City Athletics a month later, which in itself was devastating to Billy. Worse, he believed Casey Stengel hadn’t put up a strong defense on his behalf. Casey and Billy first teamed up in Oakland in the Pacific Coast League; when Casey got the manager’s gig with New York in 1949, he’d encouraged Weiss to sign Billy. They were so close that Martin was called “Casey’s Boy” in the press, and when Martin was traded, they didn’t speak for years.</p>
      <p class="indent">But by 1975 they’d reconciled, and Martin fully reembraced his connection with the Yankees. On an offseason fishing trip with Bob Short, soon to be the ex-owner of the Rangers, he’d declared, “I’ll always have the ‘NY’ logo tattooed on my chest.” When he became a manager his contract stipulated he was permitted to leave his team two days a year: the day before and the day of Yankees Old-Timers’ Day. On his final trip into New York as Rangers manager in July, he gathered some of his friends in the New York press to air a grievance. He’d been notified that Gabe Paul enacted a new policy: No player working for another team could be invited to Old-Timers’ Day. Paul didn’t think that terribly outlandish; Yogi Berra hadn’t attended since he’d become a Mets coach in 1965, after all.</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin didn’t care. Martin was pissed.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I oughta call up Mickey and tell him not to come,” Martin huffed. Then, privately, he told a handful of writers, “Fuck Gabe Paul. What has he ever won?”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_85" title="85" />
        Now Gabe Paul was standing in the Denver airport, waiting for Billy Martin’s shuttle flight from the Colorado boondocks to land so they could alight to a nearby hotel. Martin arrived with his then-wife, Gretchen, and Sapir. At the hotel, Paul cut to the chase quickly: He was offering Martin the job to manage the Yankees for the rest of 1975 and all of 1976.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Casey’s Boy could have Casey’s old job. But on a one-year trial.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Gabe,” Martin said. “I’m flattered. But I don’t think I can take another firing. And if I take this job, at some point, I’m gonna get fired.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Something else concerned Martin and Sapir: The Yankees wanted a clause put into the contract stipulating Martin “would personally conduct [himself] at all times so as to represent the best interest of the New York Yankees and to adhere to all club policies.” Sapir knew his client better than anyone. And he knew that was a trapdoor Martin would likely fall (or stumble) through sooner or later, giving the Yankees an easy out.</p>
      <p class="indent">He told Paul that Martin wasn’t bluffing.</p>
      <p class="indent">Paul was stunned. At once he was also delighted, because this meant he could either retain Bill Virdon (his preference) or pick a replacement more to his liking. But before he let Martin, Gretchen and Sapir leave the hotel, he called Steinbrenner.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Put Billy on the phone,” Steinbrenner ordered.</p>
      <p class="indent">Technically, Paul knew, this was in direct violation of Steinbrenner’s suspension, and he was in essence aiding and abetting. But Steinbrenner insisted. So Paul called Martin over, handed him the phone.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Billy,” Steinbrenner said, “this is the only job you’ve ever wanted in this world. And I’m giving it to you.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin hung up. He shook Paul’s hand.</p>
      <p class="indent">“OK,” he said. “I’m in.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">So Billy Martin</span>
        got his invitation to Old-Timers’ Day 1975 after all—and as the featured guest of honor, too. He was introduced last to the buzzing crowd of 43,968 on Saturday, August 2, which regaled Martin with a welcome-home cheer and so outraged Joe DiMaggio—for years the unquestioned final name announced on this day—that he vowed to never
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_86" title="86" />
        attend another until George Steinbrenner himself called and apologized for the unintended insult. What Steinbrenner was decidedly unapologetic about was his decision to big-foot Gabe Paul into hiring Martin; the reception at Shea only confirmed that. Better still, Martin gleefully took the lineup card out to home plate before the game, and would do so every day, something that fired up Yankees crowds every single time he did it. Virdon, by contrast, sent coach Dick Howser to perform that task, and had taken to sending Whitey Ford out to make pitching changes.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        To Steinbrenner, whose desk was dominated by a sign that read
        <span class="smallcaps">LEAD, FOLLOW, OR GET THE HELL OUT OF THE WAY</span>
        , that was Virdon all but begging to get pink-slipped. One thing he wouldn’t have to worry about was Martin hiding in the dugout, away from the tumult of his loyal, faithful throng of admirers.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The first few days were a nonstop parade of kudos and congratulations. It was an irresistible story, the exiled Yankee prince restored to the castle, charged with the task of reclaiming the kingdom, Steinbrenner serving as the wise, benevolent despot. There were a few dissenting voices. One Yankees player, shrewd enough to keep his identity private, said, “I’ll tell you something. The first time Martin second-guesses me on a pitch or any play, I’m taking off my uniform, handing it to George, and going home.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        A few days later, in a remarkably prescient column in
        <i>Newsday</i>
        , longtime baseball writer Steve Jacobson typed out the following lead as if he were staring into an actual functioning crystal ball:
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “The marriage of Billy Martin and George Steinbrenner is the stuff of great novelists and playwrights—like
        <i>Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?</i>
        There will be brilliant flashes of lightning and great claps of thunder. They are madly impetuous, each in their own way.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And he ended the column thusly: “Steinbrenner will love the fire and its illusions, for a while. But what happens when he and Martin conflict, as they surely must? It will be a wondrous thing to watch—all sparks and rockets and lightning. How long will it last? Martin has a contract through next season. So did Bill Virdon.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_87" title="87" />
        Martin’s fifty-six games as manager in 1975 were mostly a period of quiet and calm. At season’s end he said, “There are a lot of players here who believe we will finish first next year,” and what he left unsaid was obvious: Everyone else can hit the bricks.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">By the time Steinbrenner was officially reinstated, baseball would experience one last seismic shift that would not only change the game’s look forever but also allow Steinbrenner to assemble what in his worldview was manifest destiny for the Yankees. He had the manager he wanted. He had the system he wanted. He had the bully pulpit he wanted, beginning with the back pages of the tabloids and extending to an army of TV reporters eager to air his thoughts on every subject under the sun.</p>
      <p class="indent">On March 1, 1976, with a stroke of Bowie Kuhn’s pen, George Steinbrenner returned, fully reinstated.</p>
      <p class="indent">He was rested, and restless, and eager to get back to work. Napoleon had returned from Elba.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
