<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch9">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_88" title="88" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch9">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch9">Chapter 9</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>I may not have been the greatest Yankee to put on the uniform, but I was the proudest.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—Billy Martin</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">T</span>
        o understand just how vexing George Steinbrenner’s exile had been, let’s begin with a story he told on March 3, two days after his suspension ended. There was a day he’d sat on the press level at Shea Stadium in the summer of 1975 and saw Rod Carew, the brilliant batting champion of the Minnesota Twins, foul off a pitch that scooted down the left field line. As had been protocol forever, all across baseball, the ball boy stood up from his folding chair near the stands, scooped the ball with his glove, and tossed it back to the dugout so it could be reused in the days ahead for batting practice. Dozens of kids in the lower box seats reached out, pleading for the souvenir.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“That pissed me off,” Steinbrenner said. “That foul ball business. What’s it going to cost us to give the balls to the fans? Twenty, twenty-five bucks a day? If we can’t afford that, we better get out of business.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Grumpy ballplayers also irritated him. By 1975 it wasn’t uncommon for a lot of players to ignore autograph seekers—sometimes without even a trace of self-awareness. One day, hiding in the plain sight of a crowd of fans in Cleveland, Steinbrenner witnessed a young fan ask a Yankee, “My dad thinks you’re the greatest. Can I get your autograph?” And it was all
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_89" title="89" />
        Steinbrenner could do to keep from jumping the fence when he heard that Yankee say, “Kid, tell your old man that he can go fuck himself.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">No more.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Any Yankee ballplayer seen shoving aside a kid asking for an autograph will be wearing another uniform before he knows it. If you’re working or pressed for time, say so. Don’t be rude.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He was bursting with ideas and thoughts, observations and opinions, and they spilled forth like an open faucet in those first weeks of March 1976.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I know it sounds corny,” he said. “But we’re going to restore the Yankees to what they used to be, the greatest name in sports. I don’t mean we’re going to win five World Series in a row. Nobody will ever dominate that way again. The talent is spread out too evenly. I’ll promise you one thing for this season: We won’t finish in third. We’ll be knocking the Red Sox right out of there.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner was emboldened by the knowledge that two months earlier, on December 23, 1975, baseball was turned upside-down. The sport’s three-man arbitration panel issued a ruling that abolished the century-old reserve clause—which bound a player in perpetuity to the team that originally signed him. It had been the linchpin of a system that bolstered the owners, controlling player salaries and knowing the athletes had little choice but to be beholden to them.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The committee
        <i>was</i>
        technically composed of three men but one was Marvin Miller, chief of the players’ union, whose opinions were every bit as predictable and partisan as the second man, John Gaherin, the owners’ counsel. That left Peter Seitz, a seventy-year-old professional arbitrator, a self-styled “lapsed Brooklyn Dodgers fanatic” and a veteran of forty years’ worth of labor disputes involving steelworkers and steamfitters and electricians. A year earlier, it was Seitz’s decision that set Catfish Hunter free; the owners were annoyed at that, but enough of them took delight in watching Charlie Finley suffer and sweat that they shrugged their shoulders and then sprinted after Hunter with their checkbooks wide open.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        This time, the owners weren’t nearly as sanguine. The reserve clause was dead, and while Bowie Kuhn vowed to fight all the way to the Supreme
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_90" title="90" />
        Court, baseball’s lawyers assured him it would be hard to mount an appeal without also putting into peril baseball’s other sacred cow, the Anti-Trust Exemption granted in 1922, which the court upheld thirty-one years later.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“This [is] a disaster for the great majority of the players, for the clubs, and most of all for the fans,” Kuhn raged, though he didn’t elaborate how life would turn instantly miserable for the jubilant players and for fans who now knew their favorite team wouldn’t be imprisoned for decades with awful players who kept returning year after year. “It is just inconceivable that after nearly one hundred years of developing this system for the overall good of the game, it should be obliterated in this way.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The owners reacted as you might expect: First, they fired Seitz, accusing the one impartial panelist of gross prejudice, though Seitz was the one who’d agonized about the decision for over a month. The
        <i>Daily News</i>
        ’ Dick Young, for decades an unapologetic shill for management, raged: “Peter Seitz reminds me of a terrorist, a little man to whom nothing important has happened in his lifetime, who suddenly decides to create some excitement by tossing a bomb into things. That should make people pay attention to him, get him in the headlines, maybe even into history books.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Second, they ordered a lockout that began the same day Kuhn unlocked Steinbrenner from his baseball cell: March 1. They took their case to federal appeals court and were quickly dismissed. Later, in July, the owners and players would agree on a four-year collective bargaining agreement that put into place the framework for free agency we still know today: A player becomes free after six years of major-league service time. For now, there were two test cases: pitchers Dave McNally—retired, merely offering his name as help for the cause—and Andy Messersmith—very much in his prime at age thirty, coming off two years in which he’d gone 39–20 with a 2.43 ERA, thrown thirty-two complete games and twice finished top five in the Cy Young Award voting for the Dodgers.</p>
      <p class="indent">It was killing Steinbrenner to toe the company line. He saw right away free agency would become his most useful and devastating weapon. He wanted to open the camps, and his coffers, and quietly threatened to do so on his own if Kuhn and his fellow owners refused to accept the inevitable.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_91" title="91" />
        When the camps finally did open on March 17, Steinbrenner gathered with Gabe Paul and together they hatched a plan. Paul had already enjoyed a bountiful offseason, trading Bobby Bonds to the Angels for speedster Mickey Rivers and rugged starter Ed Figueroa, swapping Doc Medich to the Pirates for Dock Ellis—still a useful starting pitcher—and twenty-one-year-old Willie Randolph, a Brooklyn native who would collect 2,210 hits in his career, 1,731 of them as a Yankee. They still had perennial All-Stars in Hunter, Munson and Nettles, and a borderline one in first baseman Chris Chambliss. Now there were two targets who would strengthen the roster (and likely vault them past the Red Sox).
      </p>
      <p class="indent">One was Messersmith, engaged in the same kind of recruiting tour Hunter had enjoyed a year earlier.</p>
      <p class="indent">The other was All-Star Reggie Jackson, once Steinbrenner caught wind that Charlie Finley was planning to sell for parts a team that had finished in first place in the AL West five straight seasons, with three world championships in the middle. The boss coveted this key piece of the A’s dynasty.</p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson always enjoyed playing in New York: the passion, the energy and especially the dimensions of the old stadium. In August 1973, after planting one in the third deck, he’d admitted, “I’d like to hit in this park all the time. There’s still a lot of unexplored territory for a hitter.”</p>
      <p class="indent">And a few years later Jackson would add this gem while the A’s were visiting Shea Stadium: “If I played in New York, they’d name a candy bar after me.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson wouldn’t come without compensation, and he planned on doing what dozens of players decided to do in the wake of the Seitz ruling: play out his option year—the “reserve” in the reserve clause—and then seek the highest bidder. He was eager to get away from Finley, as most of the A’s were by 1976, and Finley was just as zealous to slash payroll. Steinbrenner figured the cantankerous A’s owner might be willing to go for a deal for a scattering of second-tier Yankee prospects or, better, a fat six-figure check.</p>
      <p class="indent">But Charlie Finley still detested George Steinbrenner.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        And he wasn’t in the business of helping him build a champion, no
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_92" title="92" />
        matter how high Steinbrenner was willing to push the price. On April 2 he traded Jackson and Ken Holtzman in a six-player swap with Baltimore, no doubt rejoicing that he’d not only dealt the Yankees a blow but also helped fortify the Orioles, still an AL East force to be reckoned with. Jackson was shattered. He wanted no part of Baltimore and threatened to retire, but as Baltimore manager Earl Weaver said, echoing baseball’s company line in the dying hours of the old ways: “In what other line of work is he going to make $200,000 this year?” Jackson reported and had a solid year, twenty-seven homers and ninety-one RBIs in 134 games, what would come to be known in future decades as a “good walk year.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Messersmith was a different matter, already free to sign with anyone, and the sides were so close to a deal that, on the last day of March, reports surfaced he’d be joining Hunter, Ellis and Figueroa at the top of the Yankees’ rotation. But on the first of April, the deal fell apart amid wild accusations from both sides. Messersmith’s agent, Herb Osmond, suggested the Yankees had tried to change the deal, requiring them to get 40 percent of Messersmith’s off-field earnings (illegal by baseball law), and further hinted Steinbrenner and Paul had plied him with booze to influence him.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Completely untrue!” Steinbrenner raged, then helpfully pointed out he had witnesses who would attest that Osmond drank exactly one and a half bottles of beer during a seven-hour meeting.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I value my integrity too much to ever play for the Yankees,” Messersmith said after Kuhn voided the deal, allowing him to sign a million-dollar pact with Ted Turner’s Atlanta Braves instead.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Anyone who doesn’t want to play for the Yankees,” Billy Martin sneered, “we don’t want ’em on the club.”</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          Messersmith had a fine season in 1976, going 11–11 for a terrible Braves team that lost ninety-two games. But he hurt his elbow in 1977, and at that December’s winter meetings in Honolulu Turner was trying to sell him to the Texas Rangers when Steinbrenner immediately offered $100,000. Turner said yes.
        </p>
        <p class="exti3">
          “This might be the best deal we’ve ever done!” Steinbrenner
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_93" title="93" />
          predicted, delighted he’d finally bagged Messersmith, himself suddenly happy to adjust his parameters of integrity.
        </p>
        <p class="extiz">Messersmith’s arm never healed. He pitched six games in 1978, eleven more for the Dodgers in ’79, then called it a career.</p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">With his first two swings at free agency Steinbrenner had two whiffs and was starting to understand an old truth of the game: Even the best hitters fail 70 percent of the time.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">In 1976 the Yankees</span>
        were restored to glory. Steinbrenner set the mood early when he convinced Billy Martin to name Thurman Munson the first Yankees captain since Lou Gehrig’s forced retirement in 1939. Munson was reluctant until Martin assured him that he, Martin, would keep taking the lineup card to home plate; in his first official game as captain, Munson launched a home run to fuel a 10–0 win over the Twins, the first Yankee to hit one out of the renovated park. Steinbrenner approved Martin’s wish to add Yogi Berra to his coaching staff. Berra had been estranged from the team since 1964, fired two days after leading the Yankees to Game 7 of the World Series in his only season as skipper. Berra joined the Mets in 1965, became manager in ’72 and was fired just before the Yanks hired Martin. Berra was a quick sell, but his wife, Carmen, was instinctively suspicious of Steinbrenner.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">On April 15 Yankee Stadium was reopened, and 52,613 stuffed the rejiggered palace to watch the Yankees spot the Twins a 4–0 lead before roaring back to win 11–4. Steinbrenner showed up in a pinstriped suit with the Yankees logo stitched on his dress shirt and declared, “It’s been a two-year road trip.” By then, the Yankees were already 4–1 and in first place in the AL East, and they would remain there for the season’s final 174 days. Martin was masterful, guiding the club to ninety-seven wins, ten clear of the second-place Orioles, fifteen and a half up on the Red Sox. The Yankees took on the pugnacity of their manager—much to the delight of their owner—on the night that officially ushered in a new chapter of Red Sox–Yankees contempt.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_94" title="94" />
        On May 20, the first time the teams played, there were 28,418 inside Yankee Stadium on a Thursday night. Bill Lee, the Yankees’ old antagonist, held them to one run over five and two-thirds innings, but the Yankees made the lead stand up. Rookie Otto Velez singled to right, and Lou Piniella tried to score against the rifle arm of right fielder Dwight “Dewey” Evans. The ball beat him by about six feet. With no other recourse, Piniella flattened Carlton Fisk with his shoulder and rolled over him, trying to jostle the ball free (all perfectly legal). Fisk punched back. The benches cleared. Out of the melee Lee emerged with his pitching arm dangling, his shoulder separated, his season interrupted for fifty-seven days.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Afterward he was philosophical. “How can I hold anything against the Yankees?” he asked. “They’re just tools of that madman Billy Martin.”</p>
      <p class="indent">A few years later he’d say: “I had a terrible dream last night, a vision, the ghost of Christmas past. It came into my room and had Steinbrenner’s face on Billy Martin’s body.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees drew 2,012,434 to Yankee Stadium, their highest figure since 1950. As delicious to Steinbrenner: That was 500,000 more than the Mets drew to Shea Stadium that summer, the first time since 1963 the Yankees drew more. The normally benign rivalry even saw a salty exchange early on. When the lockout ended, the first exhibition game was supposed to be Mets–Yankees on Wednesday, March 24, but the Mets agreed to that day only because they were supposed to play a few games in San Juan and figured Fort Lauderdale would be a natural stopover. When the lockout wiped out their trip to Puerto Rico, they wanted no part of a five-hour bus ride from St. Petersburg or a charter flight for an exhibition game. But the game was already a sellout, more than seven thousand tickets, and televised back to New York on WPIX/Channel 11, the Yankees’ station, which had set viewership records for a Mets–Yankees exhibition in 1975.</p>
      <p class="indent">“We have a contract,” Steinbrenner insisted.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Mets chartered a plane, got hammered 7–1 and Steinbrenner reveled in every pitch, imagining columns of Mets fans tearing up their tickets and trading in their Mets caps for Yankees hats.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_95" title="95" />
        It especially delighted Steinbrenner to watch Billy Martin work, though as the summer progressed, Steinbrenner, wittingly or not, developed a template he would follow often across the rest of his days, picking fights and quarreling publicly with managers and his best players. In this case it was Catfish Hunter, who had a difficult year two of his mega deal, allowing the most homers in the league and a run more per nine innings than he had in ’75. Still, he was a gamer: On May 9 he pitched into the twelfth inning against his old teammates in Oakland before losing on a walk, a sacrifice bunt and a sacrifice fly. Five days later he was scheduled to make his next start at home against another old friend, Reggie Jackson, in town with the Orioles. First, he came to the stadium early in the morning to film a commercial for Red Man tobacco, which was paying him $7,500 for two hours of work.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson, as Jackson often would, didn’t just step into the moment but seized it, scalding Hunter’s first pitch to him deep into the right field seats, a home run in his first swing at the renovated stadium with even more unexplored territory than the prior incarnation. Baltimore battered Hunter. The next day, when Hunter picked up the newspaper, he read this:</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “It was a disgrace,” a temporarily anonymous “high Yankees official” screamed, stripped across the top of the back page of the
        <i>Post</i>
        . “And it showed a complete lack of regard for his teammates and some very bad judgment. Maybe if he didn’t pitch and pose for pictures all morning he wouldn’t have given up those two homers at night. He’s being paid enough money not to have to do that.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Hunter certainly knew the identity of the “high Yankees official” even before the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        gleefully outed Steinbrenner.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Hunter was already annoyed at Steinbrenner’s insistence that he and his teammates maintain their hair short enough so “the skin on your neck is visible.” On the first day of spring training Steinbrenner posted a list of commandments for the team that would still be the law of the Bronx almost fifty years later: “No beards. No muttonchops. No long hair. No high stirrups.” It was signed “By George Steinbrenner and Billy Martin,” and the players noted the higher credit line. Hunter, who wore his hair modestly
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_96" title="96" />
        but did sport a mustache, always believed Steinbrenner kept a closer eye on him, and Steinbrenner admitted that was so: “I pay him the most money.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Maybe George is trying Charlie Finley’s old trick of getting us to hate him enough to win,” he mused.</p>
      <p class="indent">To which Steinbrenner retorted: “If being angry with me makes Catfish pitch the way he can and should that’s fine with me.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Later, in August, with the Yankees in a brief tailspin, Steinbrenner visited the Yankees’ clubhouse and gathered the starting rotation, saying he was tired of “paying good money to guys who aren’t trying one hundred and ten percent.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He wasn’t necessarily talking about Hunter. But Hunter was pissed anyway.</p>
      <p class="indent">“He’s a fan who thinks you should win every time you pitch,” said Hunter, bound for the Hall of Fame despite losing 166 games in his career.</p>
      <p class="indent">So there was that.</p>
      <p class="indent">There was also this: Dick Williams was fired on July 22 after parts of three unhappy and unsuccessful seasons with the Angels. Two weeks later, on the evenings of August 2 and 3, Williams was George Steinbrenner’s guest in the owner’s box as the Yankees, who’d seen their lead slip to nine and a half games, swept the Tigers. Steinbrenner insisted he was merely hosting a friend, seeing if he’d have interest in joining the Yankees in a consulting role down the road.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It’s obvious we feel he’s a great baseball man, and we wanted to talk about the future, if there’s a fit for him here,” he said. “But we already have a manager.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Martin understood better than anyone the inherent Sicilian message:
        <i>Don’t blow the big lead. Nobody is irreplaceable. Even you</i>
        . Especially
        <i>you.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">It wouldn’t be for another six weeks, with the Yankees’ magic number getting smaller by the day, that Steinbrenner finally offered Martin a three-year extension through 1979, which Martin happily signed before anyone could remind Steinbrenner that Martin had never come remotely close to staying in one place for four years. He’d be paid $90,000 per year. Now he had his dream job and was inching closer to his dream salary.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_97" title="97" />
        But Martin, being Martin, was still simmering even before the ink dried.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I told George I thought he was a bigger man than that,” he said. “I told him: ‘You piss me off.’ His taste was poor. He said he was just talking about a job in the organization. Well, I think there could’ve been another way to handle it that wouldn’t embarrass me. He’s the boss, but I’m not sure what he was trying to prove.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Perhaps that sounds paranoid. But it was exactly eleven days later that even the most skeptical sports reporter would be forced to admit Martin’s working conditions weren’t exactly ideal. The Yankees went into a four-game series with the second-place Orioles up eleven and a half games. Just one win in those four games would cinch the division, with eleven games to play. The mathematics were secondary; the Yankees were going to finish first. Except they lost the first game, 11–8, squandering a 7–0 lead. They were shut out by Jim Palmer the next day, shut down by ex-Yankee Rudy May the next. And by the time the Orioles were done with the sweep with a 2–1 win, the lead was cut to seven and a half and the Orioles were still breathing, if barely.</p>
      <p class="indent">When the door opened to Martin’s office, the manager was gone; he’d escaped to the trainer’s room for forty-five minutes because he knew what was coming. He knew his team would be fine, but he also knew there was someone who didn’t share that opinion. Before the first question could be fired off, the phone on his desk rang. And rang. And rang.</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin didn’t answer it.</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin barely looked at it.</p>
      <p class="indent">It rang ten times. Twenty times. Thirty times. Reporters shouted over the ringing. Martin answered over the ringing. It kept ringing.</p>
      <p class="indent">Finally he said, “Do you believe this fucking guy?”</p>
      <p class="indent">None of the reporters had to be told who that fucking guy was. As they departed, the phone rang again and they heard Martin’s side of the conversation: “George, if I’m seven and a half games back you can yell at me all you want. But when I’m seven and a half games ahead, get the hell off my ass. . . .”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_98" title="98" />
        <span class="bold">On the evening</span>
        of September 25, most of the Yankees along with George Steinbrenner and Gabe Paul gathered in a private dining room in downtown Detroit for a celebration twelve years in the making. The Yankees pounded the Tigers that afternoon to secure a tie for the AL East; now, if the Red Sox could beat the Orioles in Baltimore that night, the Yankees would clinch a postseason spot for the first time since 1964. Back at Steinbrenner’s coming-out party at 21 in January 1973 he’d vowed it would take three years to return the Yankees to glory. Now, exactly three years later, a group of men anxiously circled a telephone, where Yankees PR man Mickey Morabito was connected with an Orioles PR man at Memorial Stadium, providing long-distance play-by-play. When the players arrived around nine o’clock Dewey Evans had just given Boston a 1–0 lead. Now it was the bottom of the ninth. There were two outs and nobody on. Morabito reported that Bobby Grich was at the plate, and worked the count to 3-and-2 against Luis Tiant.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Hey, somebody get George away from the phone,” crowed Lou Piniella, owner of a license to needle the boss because he’d replaced Murcer as Steinbrenner’s favorite Yankee. “With your luck, this guy will hit a two-run homer with nobody on.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Ground ball to short,” Morabito relayed. “We win!”</p>
      <p class="indent">Champagne popped, and Steinbrenner was targeted before the players remembered they weren’t in a clubhouse. They guzzled it instead. Steinbrenner hugged everyone.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>So this is what it feels like</i>
        , he marveled to himself.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        The Yankees enjoyed another wild celebration when they knocked off the Kansas City Royals in the best-of-five AL Championship Series (ALCS), Chris Chambliss hitting a pennant-winning home run in the bottom of the ninth of Game 5. Steinbrenner enjoyed that game with New York mayor Abe Beame on one side of him and Hollywood icon Cary Grant on the other; in the clubhouse, Grant rejoiced as player after player dumped bubbly on him. Martin was quieter than you’d expect; he was delighted that
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_99" title="99" />
        he’d finally get a chance to manage in a World Series game, but he was sad Casey Stengel—who’d died the previous September—didn’t live to see it. Martin alone had chosen to wear a black armband on his left uniform sleeve to honor his mentor all year. Now he choked up as he talked to Yankees television announcer Bill White in the joyous clubhouse.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I think he’d have been awfully proud of me,” he said.</p>
      <p class="indent">But Cincinnati’s Big Red Machine of Johnny Bench and Pete Rose, Tony Pérez and Joe Morgan, was on a mission to win back-to-back championships. The Reds quickly ended the party, sweeping the Yankees in four. Steinbrenner arrived back at his room at Essex House around 1 a.m. after the series clincher. By seven he was up and by nine he was at his desk at Yankee Stadium, summoning his lieutenants. The night before, walking into the devastated home clubhouse, Steinbrenner had growled at Gabe Paul, “Look at them! They should hang their heads after that!” but then he’d also spent an hour circling the clubhouse shaking hands, offering thanks for a hell of a run and Martin for a hell of a job. That was then.</p>
      <p class="indent">Now, his eyes narrowed as the meeting began.</p>
      <p class="indent">“That,” he said, “can’t ever happen again. That is inexcusable.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Gabe Paul knew what that meant.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        More important, he knew
        <i>who</i>
        that meant.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
