<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 27</title>
    <link href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch27">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_313" title="313" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch27">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch27">Chapter 27</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>If you don’t want to play for Mr. Steinbrenner, you’ve got problems. You don’t want to win.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—Derek Jeter</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">T</span>
        here were eighteen dignitaries and VIPs gathered in front of a wall across the street from Yankee Stadium the afternoon of August 16, 2006. It happened to be the fifty-eighth anniversary of the day Babe Ruth died, and when he’d been waked a few days later in the stadium vestibule there’d been a line four hours long wrapped around the familiar secular cathedral at 161st Street and River Avenue, thousands of fans wishing to pay their final respects for the man who’d lent his name to the House that Ruth Built.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Now, they were breaking ground on the House the Boss Built.</p>
      <p class="indent">(Or, as a few cynical wags put it: “The House that Ruthless Built.”)</p>
      <p class="indent">The press and members of the Yankees faithful had gathered again, this time on a sunny, hot day, this time to commemorate a new chapter in Yankees history, one George Steinbrenner had been pushing for almost as long as he’d owned the team. Steinbrenner was one of the eighteen with silver shovels in their hands, the handles shaped like baseball bats, to officially break ground on this new Yankee Stadium. The Boss was the only one not wearing a protective hard hat.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’d rather not,” he said when handed one.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_314" title="314" />
        He was still the Boss.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">One by one, twelve politicians walked to a rostrum and addressed the crowd, capped by Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who said, “I can’t think of a better time to do this. It ties together old and new. I think Babe must be looking down and saying, ‘You go, guys.’”</p>
      <p class="indent">Then the featured speaker walked slowly to the microphone. As he stepped to the podium he bumped into a chair and seemed for a terrible second to be on his way down; John Sterling, the iconic Yankees broadcaster serving as master of ceremonies, caught him, steadied him, and guided him to the stand.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It’s very hot sitting up here,” George Steinbrenner said. “But I get a good feeling. Enjoy the new stadium. I hope it’s wonderful.”</p>
      <p class="indent">To the end, there’d been howls of protest. Upon taking office Bloomberg halted the plans Giuliani laid to build ballparks for the Mets and Yankees. Each would have matching $800 million price tags with half the tab picked up by the city. Bloomberg called that plan “corporate welfare,” and was cheered by fiscally minded officials who’d been steamrolled by Giuliani’s ambitions. Five years later the city’s finances were in better shape and the need to replace the aging ballparks in Queens and the Bronx was even stronger. The Mets and Yankees were also allowed to use money spent on the stadium to defray revenue-sharing taxes, a new provision of baseball’s latest collective-bargaining agreement.</p>
      <p class="indent">Still, Yankee Stadium was going to cost taxpayers in excess of $400 million, and this time it sped through the city council without even a public hearing. The team wouldn’t have to pay for the cost of tearing down the old stadium and would no longer be on the hook to pay rent. It was one final example of just how remarkable an investment the Yankees had been; if, in 1973, Steinbrenner’s group had put their $8.8 million in a fund that mirrored the Dow Jones Industrial Average, they would’ve turned that into a tidy $109 million.</p>
      <p class="indent">Instead, the Yankees were now worth $1.2 billion.</p>
      <p class="indent">And growing every year.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “It’s a pleasure giving this to you people,” Steinbrenner said as he
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_315" title="315" />
        concluded his remarks, which took less than a minute. They were the last words Steinbrenner would ever say before a public crowd.
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Steinbrenner’s declining health</span>
        was an open secret for years. A few months after his seventy-third birthday one of his boyhood heroes, ex–Cleveland Browns quarterback Otto Graham, died at age eighty-two on December 17, 2003. Steinbrenner had grown close with Graham through the years and took his passing hard, an unwelcome reminder of his own mortality. Eleven days later Steinbrenner sat in a pew at Church of the Palms on Bee Ridge Road in Sarasota, Florida, watching a slideshow presentation of Graham’s life when he suddenly was struck by a hot flash. He labored to breathe. When Graham’s daughter-in-law started a eulogy, Steinbrenner began to lose consciousness and, according to someone sitting near him in the pew, turned “pasty white.” Then he toppled to the church floor.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Paramedics were summoned. Horrified mourners raced to his side, loosened his tie and were greeted with “I’m all right, dammit!” as Steinbrenner regained consciousness and asked he not be lifted onto a stretcher; he was, anyway, and was rushed to Sarasota Memorial Hospital for tests. He stayed overnight. The next day, as word leaked out, Steinbrenner’s personal physician, Dr. Andrew Boyer, declared, “It was nothing more than a fainting spell. He’s feeling well, and his general health is excellent.”</p>
      <p class="indent">A few days later—through Howard Rubenstein—the Boss tried to make light of the incident: “I didn’t faint. I was just practicing my slide into second base.”</p>
      <p class="indent">More and more, though, the pithy comebacks filtered through Rubenstein bore little resemblance to the short, sometimes ill-tempered and often stilted remarks he would offer when walking past reporters on Boss Watch before and after games. After the Yankees blew the 2004 AL Championship Series to the Red Sox, with most of New York eagerly awaiting a classic Boss rant, he said nothing.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        He was being kept farther and farther from the fray, and with reason. In the summer of 2003, after Pedro Martinez sent both Derek Jeter
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_316" title="316" />
        and Alfonso Soriano to the hospital with inside brushbacks, he wept while talking about how the team battled back to win the game, 2–1. At the home opener in ’04, he broke down crying when interviewed on the pregame show by sportscaster Warner Wolf. He’d already made a habit of crying after the Yankees won all those important games from 1995 to 2001; now, it seemed, he would be moved to tears by just about anything.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Maybe he’s acting,” Yankees pitcher Mike Mussina said wryly, after he’d outdueled Martinez that day in ’03.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Soon, it became hard to hide. In May 2005 Steinbrenner agreed to appear on the YES Network program
        <i>CenterStage</i>
        hosted by longtime Yankees broadcaster Michael Kay and asked that it not be taped before a studio audience, as the show always was. He appeared distracted and confused, often simply repeating Kay’s questions as his own answers. For anyone who had ever been on the other side of a Steinbrenner interview, scribbling furiously in your notebook so you could keep up, it was heartbreaking to watch.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Not long after, there was a gathering at Yankee Stadium to announce plans for the new stadium had officially been green-lit. He offered a few remarks that day, too, but they were so halting that when the groundbreaking was announced for August, a number of Yankees officials fretted about letting Steinbrenner talk at all—and were visibly relieved when he got through it fine.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        But in early November 2006, he suffered another incident. He traveled to Chapel Hill, North Carolina, along with his wife, Joan, and his daughters, Jessica and Jennifer, to see his granddaughter, Haley Swindal, a drama student at North Carolina, perform as Sally Bowles in
        <i>Cabaret</i>
        . Midway through the show, Steinbrenner felt chest pains and began to black out again. The performance was halted at intermission, and once again he was loaded into an ambulance and taken to a local hospital for tests. Again he returned to Tampa and allegedly went back to work.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“George Steinbrenner is well and raising hell,” Rubenstein insisted. “He is just fine.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        George wasn’t fine, and was less fine every day, and it was now that he
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_317" title="317" />
        recognized the need to tend to the Yankees’ future with a lot more urgency than he ever had before. He needed to put the House of Steinbrenner in order. Fast.
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Back when he</span>
        needed a trusted surrogate in that awful summer of 1990, when Fay Vincent threw him out of baseball for life (for the time being, anyway), George Steinbrenner turned to his elder son, Hank, who’d spent time in the 1980s learning the baseball business but quickly retreated back to Florida to run the family horse interests.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Hank was the Steinbrenner sibling who best remembered his father before he became famous. He was fifteen when George fronted the group that bought the Yankees from CBS. He remembered distinctly his father coming home to suburban Cleveland one night just before Christmas, brimming with good news. Hank was hoping maybe he’d gotten a chance to buy the Cleveland Indians again.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Nope,” the father said. “It’s the Yankees.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Hank was floored. He was a baseball freak, old enough to appreciate precisely the adventure his family was about to embark on. His brother, Hal, had just turned three; Jessica was eight, Jennifer thirteen. Hank was a devoted son but of a different makeup than his father. He was always quick to point out, “I don’t fly off the handle like my dad does,” and quicker to report he’d often made trade suggestions to his father. The one he’d proposed that George actually listened to—according to Hank anyway—was the 1976 blockbuster with Baltimore in which the Yankees got Ken Holtzman and Doyle Alexander in exchange for Rick Dempsey, Tippy Martinez, Rudy May and Scott McGregor.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I told Dad, ‘You have to get Alexander,’” Steinbrenner insisted in 1986, and since by then that trade was already considered among the worst in the Steinbrenner Era, it’s hard to believe Hank would own it if it wasn’t at least a
        <i>little</i>
        true. Of course, by ’86, he really did have his father’s ear, and even the old man had to dismiss him one day when Hank insisted Dave Righetti could easily be replaced as the team’s closer by a junk-balling journeyman left-hander named Alfonso Pulido.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_318" title="318" />
        Once the press started writing down this stuff, it was delighted. Once, when a late Yankees rally fizzled, Hank roared, “This team has the killer instinct of a Quaker!”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The Boss had laughed at that one.</p>
      <p class="indent">But Hank quickly grew tired of being a back-page punch line, and much as he’d loved baseball as a kid he’d fallen out of love with the sport as an adult. He told his father he’d do his duty as a son and take over in 1990, but George could see Hank’s heart wasn’t in it. They agreed he’d be more useful as a horseman than a henchman. By 2007 Hank was still happy where he was.</p>
      <p class="indent">So . . . who?</p>
      <p class="indent">Joe Molloy became a trusted Steinbrenner lieutenant soon after marrying Jessica, the Boss’s youngest daughter, and he was a key advocate for Gene Michael when he ran the team in Steinbrenner’s absence. He’d been a former high school basketball coach and was well-liked and for a time seemed to be a likely successor. But Molloy found the pressures of the job overwhelming and in 1997 took a one-year leave of absence; before he could ponder whether he wanted to return or not, he and Jessica had broken up and Molloy happily returned to teaching.</p>
      <p class="indent">Into the breach stepped Steve Swindal, Steinbrenner’s other son-in-law, married to Jennifer. He joined the Yankees in 1995, became a general partner and quickly became the secondary face of the team, behind the Boss. By 2005 Steinbrenner anointed him his eventual business heir, and it was a popular choice. Swindal was smart, well-liked, and promised that when the time came, he’d be just as committed to winning as his father-in-law. Like Joe Molloy he also had an everyman side to him.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “You think about it,” Swindal said in 2006, speaking about the enormity of following in Steinbrenner’s loafers. “But then you say, ‘God, it’s the
        <i>New York Yankees</i>
        . What guy wouldn’t love to be involved in a major sport with the best team in all of sports? Go for it. See what happens. What’s the worst that can happen?’”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Well, since he asked . . .</p>
      <p class="indent">February 15, 2007, can happen.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_319" title="319" />
        That night, Swindal was driving his Mercedes-Benz 61 mph on a 35 mph road in St. Petersburg. When a police car followed the officer noted he was drifting out of his lane. Pulled over, Swindal failed a field-sobriety test when the officer noted he was “swaying, stumbling fumbling,” and added his “staggering motor control, watery eyes, and a strong odor of an alcoholic beverage coming from his breath.” Swindal was also described thusly: “slurred, mumbled speech [and] a blank, dazed, uncomprehending facial expression.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Swindal refused a Breathalyzer but was booked for driving under the influence and had his mug shot snapped, which dutifully appeared in hundreds of newspapers the next day. It turned out that was only part of a really,
        <i>really</i>
        bad day for Swindal: Hours before he’d gone on his bender, Jennifer informed him she wanted a divorce.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">So that was the end of Steve Swindal, heir apparent.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        That left Harold—Hal to everyone—who followed in his father’s path at both Culver Military Academy and Williams College and took his first job with the Yankees the summer after he graduated college, working in Tampa at the lowest rung of the organization. He was quieter than Hank,
        <i>much</i>
        quieter than his father.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Hal first impressed his old man when he was twelve. Burger King produced a set of Yankees cards to distribute along with cheeseburgers and fries and milkshakes. Hal picked up his set along with a Whopper one day, flipped through it, and noticed that Lou Piniella—his father’s favorite—wasn’t included. He called his dad. His dad made a call. In a couple of days, Piniella’s card was added to the set as a bonus—and, because they were printed so late, there were only a limited number of Piniellas available. By 1986, you could fetch as much as $50 for a Burger King Lou. That caught the old man’s eye.</p>
      <p class="indent">So, too, did his son’s introversion.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I wouldn’t push him if I thought he’d be intimidated by this life,” the Boss said just before he began his second suspension. “Hal is very independent. He has absolutely no fears.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Hal confirmed that.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_320" title="320" />
        “It is very uncomfortable to be in a situation when you are so privileged and it makes you stand out,” Hal said in November 1990, still but twenty years old and a senior at Williams. “To see other [students] just worried about getting jobs right now, especially during a recession, kind of makes me feel guilty.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Eventually George would have to pick Hal or Hank as his successor. For now, in September 2007, he named Hal chairman of the board. All four of his children held the title of general partner. George was still boss, still managing general partner. In time he’d have to surrender that title, and only one of his kids could hold the job. For now, Hal was in pole position.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">And yet . . .</span>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Every now and again, the old lion would emerge from behind the protective curtain, and he would roar—perhaps not as loudly as before, perhaps absent the fire that always made his words resonate when they truly emerged from his own voice box.</p>
      <p class="indent">There was the day in spring training 2005 when the Boss walked onto the elevator at Legends Field in Tampa, fresh from an aggravating meeting with Arn Tellem, one of the powerful player agents of the time. Tellem was talking to Steinbrenner about a contract extension for Hideki Matsui, but Steinbrenner was eternally peeved about another of Tellem’s clients, Jason Giambi, who’d not only hit an anemic .208 the year before but also was becoming one of the faces of the steroid controversy now blanketing baseball.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner was in a foul mood when he stepped on the elevator.</p>
      <p class="indent">The presence of a couple of reporters—including this one—didn’t brighten his day any. Especially when one asked about the Matsui talks.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Fuck the agent,” Steinbrenner barked. “He’s no good.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span class="smallcaps">BOSS BLOWS!</span>
        blared the
        <i>Post</i>
        .
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span class="smallcaps">FURIOUS GEORGE!</span>
        countered the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        .
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span class="smallcaps">GEORGE GIVES AGENT AN “F”!</span>
        was how
        <i>Newsday</i>
        checked in.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_321" title="321" />
        It was glorious! It was throwback Boss! Perhaps reports of the demise of his feisty side really were exaggerated!
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Except the next day, when the media reported to Legends Field, they discovered one of the two elevators was suddenly off-limits to them and anyone else besides those requiring access to the owner’s office on the fourth floor.</p>
      <p class="indent">By the time the Yankees were engaged in the 2007 Division Series with Cleveland, it had been months since Steinbrenner had been heard from anywhere other than a press release. The Boss Watch was still on, but that was an increasingly soul-crushing assignment. The Yankees came home to play the Indians in Game 3 having dropped the first two, the latter of which was marred when swarms of gnat-like insects known as midges wandered in from Lake Erie to torture Yankees reliever Joba Chamberlain as he tried to protect a late lead.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        On the off-day, a Saturday, Ian O’Connor, now a columnist for the Bergen
        <i>Record</i>
        , took a shot calling Steinbrenner at the Regency Hotel on Park Avenue, his usual residence in New York. O’Connor called the main hotel operator, who transferred the call to Steinbrenner’s personal assistant. This is where, about 100 percent of the time by October 2007, a reporter’s pursuit died. O’Connor understood the odds. He called anyway.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Before he knew it, the Boss was on the line.</p>
      <p class="indent">He had stuff on his mind, too.</p>
      <p class="indent">“His job is on the line,” Steinbrenner said, referring to Joe Torre, managing in his twelfth straight postseason in twelve years as Yankees skipper. “We’re paying him a lot of money. He’s the highest-paid manager in baseball. I don’t think we’d take him back if we don’t win this series.”</p>
      <p class="indent">In the old days, Steinbrenner would’ve stormed into the press box while the midges were still attacking Chamberlain, raised hell with everyone: writers, league president, commissioner. A day later, the only one who’d said (correctly) the umpires should’ve halted the game until the bugs could be cleared was Roger Clemens, the Game 3 starter. That infuriated the Boss.</p>
      <p class="indent">“The umpire was full of shit,” the Boss raged.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_322" title="322" />
        He said he’d complained to commissioner Bud Selig.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Bud just said, ‘That’s in the umpires’ hands.’ But Jesus Christ, it was terrible. It messed up the whole team, Jeter, all of them.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner had one last message.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I have full control,” he said. “I’m doing all right. I’m fine.”</p>
      <p class="indent">For a few days, New York was electrified. O’Connor’s competitors in the papers and talk radio were incensed, certain he’d been set up with the Boss by factions of the team’s leadership eager to part ways with Torre. All flatly denied that. O’Connor insisted he’d simply done what every journalism school student learns on the first day of Reporting 101: pick up the phone, make the call, ask some questions.</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          By now, the public really did seem nostalgic for the Old Boss. That summer, ESPN broadcast an eight-part limited series,
          <i>The Bronx Is Burning</i>
          , dramatizing the fabled Bronx Zoo Yankees of 1977. Oliver Platt, a much-acclaimed Canadian actor, portrayed Steinbrenner, and he didn’t hold back even a little bit in his admittedly hammy performance.
        </p>
        <p class="extiz">“I was a Red Sox fan who’d hated the Yankees, mostly because of Steinbrenner,” Platt told me that July. “I used to think they won despite him but I learned it was quite the opposite, and I wanted to bring that to the character. It’s a challenge to play someone who’s already larger-than-life.”</p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">
        That was the last cloudburst from the old hurricane. A year later, three months shy of a date with a wrecking ball, Yankee Stadium was awarded the All-Star Game, a fitting farewell to the place that hosted more history than any other. On the night of Tuesday, July 15, just before first pitch, the 55,632 folks crammed into the old yard saw a golf cart emerge from the stadium’s bowels and begin a full lap around the warning track. When they realized who was inside they began to stir, then cheer, then roar. George Steinbrenner was sitting in the second row with his daughter Jennifer at his left and his son Hal in the back. The roar picked up steam as Jennifer
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_323" title="323" />
        beamed and held her father’s arm; Steinbrenner waved a few times but was mostly overcome, weeping the whole ride. At the end of the cart’s journey, it stopped at the pitcher’s mound, where Steinbrenner hand-delivered four baseballs to the four men who would throw out the ceremonial first pitch, all of them Yankees Hall of Famers—Yogi Berra, Whitey Ford, Reggie Jackson, Goose Gossage.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Every one of them gave Steinbrenner a hug.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then he was gone, to one last wave of acclaim, one final roll of thunderous applause at a place where they’d once chanted his name in derision.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
