<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 19</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch19">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_218" title="218" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch19">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch19">Chapter 19</a>
      </h1>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="extt">
          <i>I will never let the Yankees be number two in this city.</i>
        </p>
        <p class="exti">
          —
          <span class="smallcaps">George Steinbrenner</span>
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="noindent">
        <span class="dropcap">I</span>
        t was hard to imagine a worse-case scenario for George Steinbrenner. Beginning on the evening of Saturday, October 18, 1986, extending for the next ten days, the World Series would be fought between the two baseball clubs in which he’d invested thirteen years’ of angst, worry, hubris and disdain: the Boston Red Sox, the Yankees’ ancient blood rivals from the moment Babe Ruth was exchanged late in 1919 for $100,000 cash; and the New York Mets, with whom the Yankees shared a city and ever-shifting tides of consumer fealty.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">When Steinbrenner boldly declared he’d never allow the Yankees to be second-best in New York, it was spring 1984 and the Yankees had enjoyed a distinct advantage over the Mets in on-field success, attendance and television ratings in every year since 1976.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        But the sand under Steinbrenner’s feet had already begun to shift. In 1983 the Mets traded for Keith Hernandez, the 1979 MVP with St. Louis who would become the Mets’ first-ever team captain. Darryl Strawberry was called up in May, exactly the kind of swaggering slugger Steinbrenner coveted, and he’d won Rookie of the Year. The Mets did suffer a self-inflicted PR fiasco by allowing Tom Seaver to leave for a second time by senselessly keeping him unprotected in the free agent compensation draft;
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_219" title="219" />
        that allowed a roster spot to be seized in spring 1984 by a nineteen-year-old named Dwight Gooden, who would become a sensation (and a box office bonanza) by winning seventeen games, striking out 276 batters in 218 innings.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">By 1986 the gap was growing. There’d been the usual in-season drama when the Yankees, under rookie manager Lou Piniella, fell behind the Red Sox (thanks in large part to the hitting and leadership of Don Baylor, whom Steinbrenner couldn’t wait to trade that spring). At one point, Steinbrenner ordered Winfield to the bench, after Winfield got off to his slowest start as a Yankee, sitting at .226 in July. Winfield, though furious, correctly surmised, “I don’t think it’s Lou who’s doing it,” and Piniella all but confirmed that for him by saying when he’d talked to Winfield, “I didn’t make a point of yes or no, so you can interpret that as you wish.” That set Steinbrenner off, too, and Piniella was pummeled with phone calls the next few days. Soon enough, Steinbrenner ripped Piniella, too.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’ve done everything for this guy,” Steinbrenner said. “I gave him a chance to manage the Yankees without going to the minors. In retrospect, maybe that was a mistake.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Meanwhile, the Mets seized first place the second week of the season and never let up on the way to a 108–54 record. They set a single-season New York City attendance record by attracting 2,767,601, a half million more than the Yankees. The Mets would continue to outdraw the Yankees through the 1992 season, becoming the first-ever New York team to top three million in 1987 (and again in 1988).</p>
      <p class="indent">The Mets weren’t bashful about taking the town away, either.</p>
      <p class="indent">“George doesn’t want to admit it,” Mets manager Davey Johnson said, “but we’re claiming some of his fans, as well as Mets fans.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner ordered Mets games no longer be shown in the press box or in the media workroom. The Mets tweaked the Yankees by putting advertisements at the top of the stairs of the platform across the street from Yankee Stadium, at the 161st Street stop, with their slogan for 1986: “Baseball Like It Oughta Be.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “The subway is the best place to reach baseball fans,” reasoned Jerry
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_220" title="220" />
        Della Femina, still a Steinbrenner antagonist and the brains behind that placement. “And some nights, it’s the best place to reach
        <i>disappointed</i>
        baseball fans.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">After the resumption of the Mayor’s Trophy Game for several years it was the Mets who decided to end that exhibition for good when they signed a two-year agreement in 1986 to instead play a home-and-home charity exhibition with—of all teams—the Red Sox.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        So it was perhaps something of a shock when the
        <i>New York Post</i>
        announced a guest columnist for all Mets playoff games in October 1986:
      </p>
      <p class="indent">George M. Steinbrenner III.</p>
      <p class="indent">He had fun with the column—or as much fun as he could watching the Mets beat the Astros in six games for the National League pennant, capped by an extraordinary sixteen-inning classic in Game 6. He quoted Shakespeare. He quoted Milton. He quoted Dryden. He was quick to remind readers that he’d been sports editor of the student newspaper back at Williams College. And he conceded at the end of his column after the Mets’ 7–6 clincher: “I am not sure the superlatives will not be exhausted—for with all of its periods of offensive frustration this was one hell of a ball game!”</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          Steinbrenner quickly adapted to the New York tabloid style of get in quick, say what you want to say and get out. And also to the New York tabloids’ eternal affinity for the slammer—otherwise known in the rest of the English-speaking world as an exclamation point!
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">
        Hard as he tried, it was obvious the seven-game World Series that followed made Steinbrenner want to jam his pencil in his eye; it was abundantly clear he would’ve preferred a way for
        <i>both</i>
        teams to lose the series.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">After the Mets lost the first two, at home, Steinbrenner crowed on page one: “Welcome to the American League East!”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Following the Mets’ epic comeback from near extinction in Game 6, when they’d rallied for three tenth-inning runs, Steinbrenner offered this
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_221" title="221" />
        counsel to Davey Johnson, reminding that the ancient Latin wordsmith Syrus had advised “it is a good thing to learn caution by the misfortune of others.” And when the Mets finally took him out of his misery by winning Game 7, 8–5, he shared a paragraph with his go-to source: “For our neighbors at Shea . . . you are richly deserved and were so rewarded. And in the words of Milton: ‘Well done! Well has thou fought the better fight.’”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        It was Keith Hernandez, regular
        <i>Post</i>
        reader, who got the last word in with that one: “Look, George is the greatest thing that ever happened to the Yankees. He made them a winner. But when he said ‘Welcome to the AL East,’ that was my war cry. Welcome, George, to the New York Mets—the best team in baseball in 1986.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">What could he do? The next day Steinbrenner called Yankee Stadium and ordered a message to be carried on the marquee outside: “Congratulations, Mets.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">It had taken</span>
        George Steinbrenner ten years, but by 1983 he’d rebuilt the Yankees, had lifted the brand beyond where it had ever been before. Starting in 1984, though, it wasn’t just the emergence of the Mets that would help undo so much of this careful architecture. Through the end of the decade, the Yankees would annually find themselves battling two difficult opponents: the rest of the American League, and their own owner (a slide that wouldn’t halt until the more destructive of those elements would disappear for two years).
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        For now, even as the Mets failed to duplicate their 1986 apex, Steinbrenner’s Yankees could never seize back the city because he was incapable of crafting a full and balanced baseball roster. The Yankees offense—led by Rickey Henderson, Don Mattingly and Dave Winfield—would usually be fearsome. Their pitching was almost always circumspect. A different team every year would reach first place, stubbornly refuse to yield it to the Yankees—the Tigers, the Blue Jays, the Red Sox—who would win their share of games but not nearly
        <i>enough</i>
        games.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And George Steinbrenner would have his say.</p>
      <p class="indent">Always, he would have his say.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_222" title="222" />
        In 1987, it actually seemed the Yankees might do the one thing that could keep the Boss quiet and quartered in Tampa: They started hot, and they kept it up through April, through May, through June. At the halfway mark they were 51–30 and led the East by five games. Piniella was being hailed as Manager of the Year. Dave Winfield, who’d driven in one hundred runs or better in five straight seasons, had sixty-three of them after eighty-one games. Henderson got off to a blazing start, ten home runs in the first two months (four of them leading off games), stealing twenty-three bases, hitting a robust .327.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Mattingly started slowly. Following a 1986 season that almost yielded a second straight MVP (.352, 113 RBIs, a remarkable eighty-six extra-base hits) he knew he’d be able to make a huge score in arbitration and most everyone encouraged him to ask for $2 million, a mark Steinbrenner repeatedly said “no player is worth.” But Mattingly loved being a Yankee and only coveted tranquility, so he asked for $1.975 million, a symbolic olive branch to the Boss.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Boss hadn’t seen it that way.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Arbitration,” he sneered, “is the cancer of baseball.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        He had a warning for his not-quite-two-million-dollar star: “I fully expect Don Mattingly to lead us to the World Series now and he’d better do it just like [Mets catcher] Gary Carter did after he got
        <i>his</i>
        big contract.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner stunned most of his audience by avoiding the temptation of a fifth walk down the aisle with Billy Martin, instead bringing Piniella back for a second year; more shocking was a few weeks later, when the time came to court free agents—usually the Boss’s favorite time of the year. Everyone around the Yankees believed they were lacking one thing to put them over the top—an ace, a genuine horse to eat innings and anchor the pitching staff. As it happened, a perfect candidate was available: Tigers star Jack Morris. Even better: After negotiating with three teams—including his hometown Minnesota Twins—Morris and his agent, Dick Moss, gave Steinbrenner their terms.</p>
      <p class="indent">One year, salary to be determined by an arbitrator.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_223" title="223" />
        “It’s an offer George can’t possibly refuse,” Moss said.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">George refused. Morris, stunned, went back to Detroit. And the case that the union had been building for years against the owners—charges that all twenty-six were colluding to drive salaries down—was at last fully in the open. Commissioner Peter Ueberroth had lectured them as a group since he’d taken office in 1984 to treat their baseball business as they would their other businesses.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Baseball can’t survive an ever-escalating salary structure,” he’d warned.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner, in a staggering departure, went along with the plan. Instead of signing Morris—and, even better, taking him away from the Tigers—he walked away.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It’s evident Steinbrenner doesn’t want to win,” said Marvin Miller, by now retired as the head of the players’ union but still a man who could spot collusion from a hundred paces. “Or that there are things he fears more than losing.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Ironic, then, that the Yankees’ season died in Detroit, which started the season 11–19 but finished 98–64 and in first place in the AL East, thanks in no small part to an 18–11 season from Jack Morris, his 3.38 ERA and 208 strikeouts in 266 innings. On August 8, Tommy John threw a 7–0 shutout against the Tigers, and it moved the Yankees back into first place by a half game. It would turn out to be the last night the Yankees would go to sleep in first. Steinbrenner had already lit his blowtorch.</p>
      <p class="indent">Five days earlier Steinbrenner, incensed after a shutout loss to Cleveland, told general manager Woody Woodward to instruct Piniella to be in his room at the Stouffer’s Inn on the Square at two o’clock the next day to take a call. By this point, Piniella was on his last ribbon of rope with the constant harassment and relentless second-guessing. Piniella believed with all the injuries the Yankees suffered it was a miracle they were still even in the race. Henderson had twice been disabled with a bad hamstring. Mattingly hurt a disc, an injury that for a while had been rumored to be caused by some horseplay with little-used reliever Bob Shirley (Steinbrenner threatened to use lie detectors to get to the truth; Shirley was quietly released with no reason given).</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_224" title="224" />
        Piniella laughed. “Some baseball teams, you don’t think you’ll ever hear words like ‘polygraph,’ and yet around here nobody blinks.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Piniella was easily talked out of sequestering in his room.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner called at two o’clock. And at two fifteen. And at two thirty.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        It didn’t help Piniella at all that his team was pulverized 15–3 that night, thanks in part to three passed balls by his catcher, Mark Salas. Piniella had begged for catching help for weeks (Salas had a remarkable
        <i>nine</i>
        passed balls), and when the team arrived in Detroit he approached Woodward about that.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m sorry, Lou,” Woodward told him. “I’m not allowed to talk to you.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Excuse me?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m not allowed to talk to you.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Now, Piniella fully believed he was through the looking glass. He’d quit smoking in the offseason but was back up to three packs a day (a common malady for Yankees managers). Harvey Greene, the Yankees’ PR chief, handed him two pieces of paper before the 7–0 win. It was a 743-word statement from the principal owner of the Yankees.</p>
      <p class="indent">And it was a doozy. The Boss buried Piniella for insubordination—“I don’t know of too many guys—even sportswriters—who if their boss told them to be available for a call at a certain time wouldn’t be there!”</p>
      <p class="indent">Worse, Steinbrenner said Piniella told him he was convinced Rickey Henderson wasn’t as hurt as he claimed. Steinbrenner used a ballplayers’ term—“Lou said he was ‘jaking it.’” And with that Steinbrenner put his manager in danger of losing his clubhouse.</p>
      <p class="indent">Still, the Yankees knew who was on the side of the angels in this one. After the game, Willie Randolph and Ron Guidry—named cocaptains when Graig Nettles departed for San Diego—summoned their teammates. Rick Cerone—back for a second of three tours with the Yankees—played the part of narrator. And three others—Claudell Washington, Gary Ward, Winfield—took the statement, held it over a trash can in the visitor’s trainer’s room at Tiger Stadium.</p>
      <p class="indent">And lit a match.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_225" title="225" />
        And the 1987 Yankees laughed and rejoiced in burning the pages of George Steinbrenner’s statement.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“They took the heart out of my team,” Piniella said on the season’s final day, his last day (for now) as manager of the Yankees. By then, it was an open secret that Piniella was going to be replaced, and just about everyone in New York City had the same reaction:</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>My gosh, is that Billy Martin’s entrance music?</i>
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">This time, even</span>
        Billy Martin was stunned at just how much of a madhouse the Yankees had become. Martin was used to the Boss getting on managers.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But now, Steinbrenner merrily went after his players, too.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Mostly, he went after the
        <i>best</i>
        of the players.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">He’d gone after Dave Righetti good. Righetti had been the Rookie of the Year in 1981 and by ’82 found himself in Columbus, sent there by Steinbrenner. He threw a no-hitter on Steinbrenner’s fifty-third birthday, July 4, 1983. And while it displeased him, he willingly accepted an assignment as the closer in the bullpen beginning in 1984 when Goose Gossage fled. This, he soon realized, was tantamount to agreeing to sit about fifteen feet from Steinbrenner’s duck blind.</p>
      <p class="indent">“As a starter, you’d only be in danger once a week,” he’d say with a laugh years later. “As a closer, it was two, three, sometimes four days a week. And the son of a gun was on point. Every time you blew a game, it seemed, you heard about it.”</p>
      <p class="indent">In 1986 Righetti set a major-league record by saving forty-six games. Across the last four months he’d been brilliant. But he’d struggled early, compounded by the inevitable critiques that followed every failure. The bottom came in Toronto, on June 20, when Righetti walked into the bottom of the ninth with an 8–2 lead and left with the game tied 8–8. When Piniella came to get him, instead of handing him the ball Righetti, in frustration, heaved it far over the distant outfield wall about 350 feet away. Piniella crowed, “I love the passion!” but Righetti admitted: “I have never felt that kind of anguish.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_226" title="226" />
        Afterward Steinbrenner—Hank Steinbrenner, George’s twenty-eight-year-old son—declared “Maybe Alfonso Pulido could be the closer instead”—that would be Alfonso Pulido, who would pitch a total of thirty and two-thirds innings in the major leagues.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">That one lit a fuse.</p>
      <p class="indent">“We’re not panicking like the guy upstairs,” Righetti sneered after hearing the deep baseball thoughts of the guy upstairs’ kid. “He’s never played a fucking game for this team. What does he know?”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The oddest feud was with Mattingly. That one was complicated. As Mattingly rose, ultimately blossoming into the consensus best player in the sport according to his peers, Steinbrenner began to peddle a story that he’d been on an airplane thumbing through an issue of
        <i>Sports Illustrated</i>
        when he’d seen an item on Mattingly as a Reitz High player in its back-of-the-book “Faces in the Crowd” section.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I told the scouts about him, because I read
        <i>Sports Illustrated</i>
        ,” he insisted. “It was my find.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Great story.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Except the item in
        <i>SI</i>
        ran in the edition of July 16, 1979. Mattingly had been selected in the nineteenth round of the MLB entry draft on June 6.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Now Mattingly was a star, the most popular Yankee since Mantle, and even working-class fans didn’t begrudge him the checks he was cashing. Nobody did. Except the Boss.</p>
      <p class="indent">Mattingly started 1987 slowly but, unsurprisingly, still had a remarkable year: .327, thirty homers, 115 RBIs. He’d also hit six grand slams that season and tied a record by hitting home runs in eight straight games in July.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        He was the toast of the town.
        <i>Most</i>
        of the town.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “He was more concerned with the home run record than he was in helping us win games,” Steinbrenner said, blissfully unaware of the irony that hitting home runs is, generally speaking, a
        <i>huge</i>
        help in winning games.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Mattingly normally let these observations pass like a slider down-and-away.</p>
      <p class="indent">Not this time.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_227" title="227" />
        “For some reason, I just don’t think it’s going to work out,” he said. “I think the owner will run me out of New York before it gets too late there.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“He might be right,” Steinbrenner retorted. “It won’t be the end of the Yankees if Don Mattingly leaves. I think he’s frustrated.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Said Mattingly: “Frustration? What does he know? He never played the game.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Mattingly loved New York—loved the pinstripes—so much that when the Boss offered a three-year, $6.7 million deal, he signed. He said he could’ve held out for more, but felt like the Yankees were his family.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        By this time the Boss signed for Billy V, and Lou Piniella was kicked upstairs, to general manager—an ill fit from the start. Piniella made no pretense about wanting to manage again—“but never here, not for
        <i>that</i>
        guy,” he promised—and when friends asked why he’d stick around the zoo he was honest with them.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I have kids,” he said. “They’ll be in college soon. They’ve lived here their whole lives. I can’t walk away from that.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He’d walk in seven months, not long after Steinbrenner sent him and Gene Michael to Houston’s Astrodome for a scouting mission. The Boss wanted his two closest protégés to be incognito so he recommended sunglasses, raincoats and umbrellas.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “Umbrellas in the
        <i>Astrodome</i>
        , George?” Piniella said.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “That’s a true story,” Michael said years later. “It sounds made-up. You want to know what it was like to work for George sometimes?
        <i>That’s</i>
        what it was like.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">All of it was starting to fry the nerves of even the stoic Indiana kid.</p>
      <p class="indent">Late summer of ’88, it was clear that another year of Mattingly’s prime had come and gone, and while Steinbrenner had taken only subtle shots that year, they’d been heard. And on August 21, all of that bottled anger came pouring out.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I think there are a lot of unhappy players,” he said. “There’s no respect. They give you money, and that’s it. That’s as far as it goes. They think money is respect. Call us babies, call us whatever you want. If you don’t treat me with respect I don’t want to work for you.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_228" title="228" />
        “They pay you the money,” he continued, “and then they treat you like shit.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">He never said the words “George Steinbrenner,” not once.</p>
      <p class="indent">But Steinbrenner sure recognized himself in the description. He fired off another statement, this time opting for the third person.</p>
      <p class="indent">“The Boss,” he said, “is really confused. I’m not making errors on the field. I’m not leaving men stranded in scoring position time and again . . . that is why Don Mattingly’s statement doesn’t bother me much. He’s a young man who is upset and frustrated because he ‘guaranteed a pennant’ for the Yankees last winter and the team is playing poorly. . . .”</p>
      <p class="indent">Mattingly knew he’d never win if he jumped in the sandbox. When he read the statement he smiled, shook his head and said, “Let’s all move on.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Billy V WAS</span>
        a hit at first. The Yankees took over first place on May 3, stayed there for forty-seven straight days. Winfield had his finest season as a Yankee, despite Steinbrenner’s daily attempts to trade him (Piniella and Michael’s cloak-and-dagger mission to Houston was an effort to scout potential target Kevin Bass). Even as they coasted in first place, there was a problem.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Stunningly, it happened in a bar.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Actually, it
        <i>started</i>
        in a bar, at the Arlington Hilton. Martin was drinking to forget a 7–6 loss to the Rangers alongside Mickey Mantle, Mick’s son Danny, and Mike Ferraro (who’d been hired by Steinbrenner for a third time, this time to be—no lie—third base coach). It was packed. Martin asked Mickey, who lived nearby, “Isn’t there a quieter place than this?”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I know just the place!” Mickey said.</p>
      <p class="indent">So the four of them taxied to a windowless building with stucco exterior walls. The sign out front announced it as LACE; the throbbing music and plentiful G-strings confirmed it was a strip joint.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “You son of a bitch,” Martin said to Mickey, laughing wickedly. “
        <i>This</i>
        is the quiet place?”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        What happened next has never been fully determined. As in the past Martin was recognized. As in the past there were words, some of them
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_229" title="229" />
        sarcastic. Martin told Ferraro to take the Mantles home; Ferraro did as he was told. Martin went to the restroom. When he emerged he was a bloody mess. He said he was attacked. Others swore he fell. Martin somehow limped outside, found a cab, drove back to the Hilton, hoping he could sneak in quietly, get trainer Gene Monahan to tend to his wounds.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Good plan.</p>
      <p class="indent">Only back at the Hilton, there had been an accident near one of the saunas. The fire alarms blared, and the entire building was evacuated. This included twenty-five Yankees, six coaches, eight traveling beat writers.</p>
      <p class="indent">And George M. Steinbrenner III, wrapped in a silk robe.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “You’ve
        <i>got</i>
        to be kidding me,” Martin said as he stepped out of the cab.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">He was on the clock again, and time ran out June 23, with the Yankees at 40–28, still only two and a half games out of first. Steinbrenner told Martin he didn’t blame him for what happened at Lace, he simply couldn’t abide this kind of behavior; the New York papers had practically opened bureaus at Lace, keeping the story alive for weeks.</p>
      <p class="indent">“He hurt me this time,” a despondent Martin said a few weeks later.</p>
      <p class="indent">Of course, he said this at Old-Timers’ Day, to which he gladly accepted an invitation, happily drank in one more ovation, merrily donned his old number 1 jersey—which Steinbrenner had retired two years earlier, not bad for a .257 lifetime hitter with sixty-four lifetime home runs.</p>
      <p class="indent">Yogi Berra kept his promise and his distance from the stadium that Old-Timers’ Day; Piniella asked him to be his bench coach, and while Berra was touched, he told Lou he’d never set foot in Yankee Stadium as long as “that guy” owned the team. When the Yankees inducted Berra and Bill Dickey into the team Hall of Fame in 1988, adding the honor of a plaque in Monument Park, Dickey, at eighty-one, quickly accepted. Berra played golf. Four Old-Timers’ Days passed without him, and he’d stay away for ten more. Martin? He trotted onto the field just twenty-three days after they axed him.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Applauding from the dugout was the new manager. Who was also the
        <i>old</i>
        manager.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “What the fuck are you doing here?” Dave Winfield asked Lou Piniella
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_230" title="230" />
        when he saw him sitting in his old office on June 24. Piniella, in truth, didn’t have a good answer. And he admittedly didn’t do a great job. Before the Yankees finished another fifth-place season at 85–76, Piniella all but begged Steinbrenner to fire him, once again vowed he wouldn’t ever come back. This time, it took.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">By now, the shining baseball city on a hill that Steinbrenner envisioned lay in rubble. Ten seasons had passed without a title, seven since a playoff berth, and many Yankees fans had grown weary of the slapstick. Fan groups organized across the boroughs, up and down the suburbs, demanding Steinbrenner sell the team.</p>
      <p class="indent">If the Boss heard their pleas, he never let on. Besides, by now, he’d already made a decision that would nearly destroy him.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
