<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 17</title>
    <link href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch17">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_193" title="193" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch17">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch17">Chapter 17</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>The problem with George is that he doesn’t know what it’s really like to play baseball.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—Mickey Mantle</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">H</span>
        e’d had enough. Ten years serving, in essence, as George Steinbrenner’s dean of discipline? Please. Lee MacPhail never lost his quiet dignity, even after so many run-ins with Steinbrenner and his angry little sidekick, Billy Martin. He’d never lost his sense of fair play. MacPhail announced his retirement as American League president as of January 1, 1984, and he was eager to be done with Steinbrenner’s endless, epic litany of grievances, mostly about how umpires were always out to get the Yankees.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Anyone who knows me knows I hate to have my name in the newspaper,” MacPhail said a few weeks before his retirement.</p>
      <p class="indent">He’d loved his job as Yankees GM but saw immediately what life working with Steinbrenner would be, then happily shifted his professional life to the AL offices on Sixth Avenue. It was a blissful decade, but he was ready for something else. His son, Andy, was hired by the Twins as the sport’s youngest GM, where he would assemble championship teams in 1987 and 1991. Lee would spend many happy days in Minneapolis.</p>
      <p class="indent">He just had to make it to the end of 1983 first.</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin and the Boss seemed determined to make that trip as miserable as possible.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_194" title="194" />
        “I’ve tried to reason with both of them,” MacPhail said. “I’ve told them a certain level of behavior just will not do. And that will work for a time. But then . . . circumstances seem to come into play, and off we go again.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The bitching began almost from the start. Sometimes it was silly: Martin played a game under protest once because he insisted a pitcher’s undershirt wasn’t regulation. Sometimes it was almost hilarious: When Yankee Stadium reopened in 1976, it featured the first-ever video board, and Steinbrenner insisted every umpire call that went against the Yankees be replayed over and over, inflaming the fans. MacPhail ordered him to stop. Steinbrenner argued that was unfair.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Life is unfair sometimes,” MacPhail replied.</p>
      <p class="indent">Once, as they were closing the gap on Boston in the summer of 1978, the Yankees mounted a comeback on a rainy Sunday afternoon in Baltimore, taking the lead in the top of the seventh inning. As they did, with threatening skies looming, Earl Weaver stalled as much as he could. Then those skies opened up, for hours. Under the rules at the time, the final score reverted to the previous full inning. Orioles win.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner went berserk.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Weaver can’t do that!” Steinbrenner screamed at MacPhail.</p>
      <p class="indent">“George,” MacPhail said, “he just did.”</p>
      <p class="indent">It was the umpires for whom Steinbrenner reserved his fiercest furies, and it was Lee MacPhail who received the business end of those bombasts.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It’s strange,” MacPhail said. “We have seven games a day in the American League and the only noise we get is from New York.”</p>
      <p class="indent">In 1983 both Steinbrenner and Martin seemed intent on boiling MacPhail’s blood every day as a parting gift. In the spring Steinbrenner accused National League umpires working spring training games of “being in cahoots” against the Yankees, a charge so irrational MacPhail didn’t know whether to laugh or spank Steinbrenner with a paddle; he levied a $50,000 fine instead.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        A few months later, when the Yankees got into a brawl with the A’s at Yankee Stadium, Steinbrenner, watching at home, was incensed when Dave
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_195" title="195" />
        Winfield was ejected and A’s catcher Mike Heath—with whom Winfield had tangled—was not. He called MacPhail at home, where he was watching the game on TV. Then Steinbrenner demanded that his PR man, Ken Nigro, release a statement blasting the umpires, giving the impression that MacPhail agreed with him.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">MacPhail released his own statement:</p>
      <p class="indent">“Mr. Steinbrenner’s intemperate blast at the integrity of the umpires is completely unacceptable and will result in disciplinary action.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner, true to form, doubled down.</p>
      <p class="indent">“We are all free to express our opinions,” the Boss said, “unless Lee MacPhail has authored a new Constitution or Bill of Rights of the United States.”</p>
      <p class="indent">That one earned Steinbrenner a one-week suspension. Shortly thereafter Billy Martin kicked dirt on an umpire, and that earned him a three-game ban. Martin, like his boss, never knew when to simply shut up, walk away, and he accused MacPhail of being unfair.</p>
      <p class="indent">“He’s right, it was unfair,” MacPhail responded. “For behaving like a three-year-old in front of thirty thousand people on prime-time TV, a fair penalty would’ve been thirty games.”</p>
      <p class="indent">So . . . let all of this serve as a preamble for the hot, sticky Sunday afternoon of July 24, 1983. The Yankees, for all their quirky daily turmoil, were playing their best baseball in three years. They’d won eight of nine, were only two games behind first-place Toronto. Dave Winfield was having his best year as a Yankee. Ron Guidry was on the way to winning twenty-one. Lefty pitcher Dave Righetti, the Rookie of the Year in 1981 whom Steinbrenner had personally sent to the minor leagues during a rough patch in 1982, threw a no-hitter on the Fourth of July—Steinbrenner’s fifty-third birthday. And a sweet-swinging rookie named Don Mattingly came up for good in May and started hitting line drives every day.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Good times in the Bronx. This day, with 33,944 on hand, the Yankees overcame a 3–1 Kansas City lead to take a 4–3 advantage into the ninth. Dale Murray got the first two outs. Down to his last strike, U. L. Washington
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_196" title="196" />
        scratched out a single. Martin walked to the mound, took the ball from Murray, handed it to Goose Gossage. One more out and the Yankees would creep within a game of first place.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">George Brett stepped to the plate.</p>
      <p class="indent">Gossage threw a 97 mph fastball. Brett got a good swing on it, laced it down the left field line, but it sliced just foul. Rick Cerone put down one finger again. Gossage went into his stretch, quickly delivered. This time it was ninety-eight, and it seemed to be heading for Brett’s chin. “If I was smart enough, I would’ve ducked out of the way of the son of a bitch before it killed me,” Brett would remember years later. “But I wasn’t so smart in those days.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Brett didn’t duck.</p>
      <p class="indent">Brett swung his bat.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">On television, Frank Messer,</span>
        the Yankees’ longtime play-by-play man on WPIX, lent perfect voice to what everyone was thinking the moment Gossage’s heater hit Brett’s bat.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Uh-oh!” Messer said.</p>
      <p class="indent">Brett circled the bases slowly, triumphantly, one of the great Yankee killers of all time admiring his work as the stadium quieted and Gossage kicked dirt on the mound. As he was approaching home plate, the Kansas City batboy dutifully retrieved Brett’s bat and started toward the third base dugout. Before he could get there, he was called back by home plate umpire Tim McClelland, who was engaged in quiet conversation with Billy Martin, with Graig Nettles listening in. Brett saw this happening out of the corner of his eye but thought nothing of it. What he didn’t see, or hear, was Martin pointing to the Louisville Slugger now in McClelland’s hands.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Look at how far the pine tar is,” Martin said. “That’s an illegal bat.”</p>
      <p class="indent">For all of Martin’s eccentricities and idiosyncrasies, the son of a gun knew the rule book backward and forward. A few weeks earlier, playing in Kansas City, Nettles noticed the pine tar on Brett’s bat clearly extended beyond the trademark, more than the eighteen inches allowed by rule. He’d notified Martin.</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_197" title="197" />
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          Steinbrenner stunned a lot of folks—including himself—when he named Graig Nettles captain before the 1983 season, having respectfully left the position vacant for four years after Thurman Munson’s death. Nettles, too, was dumbfounded, given how many skirmishes the two had through the years. But he was also humbled.
        </p>
        <p class="extiz">“I have mixed emotions about being named captain,” he said. “I wish that as long as I played the game Thurman would be here and he’d be the captain.”</p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">“Keep it quiet for now,” Martin told Nettles. “Let’s save it for when we really need it, the next time that son of a bitch kills us in a game.”</p>
      <p class="indent">McClelland knew home plate was eighteen inches wide. He lay the bat across the top. In the Royals’ dugout, Dick Howser muttered, “No fuckin’ way . . .” to Brett. He knew what was happening.</p>
      <p class="indent">Brett was incredulous.</p>
      <p class="indent">“If they call me out,” he said, “you’re going to see four dead umpires.”</p>
      <p class="indent">A few seconds later, McClelland approached the Royals’ dugout. As if to offer a happy preview to the 33,944 witnesses, Nettles merrily pounded the pocket of his mitt with his right fist—just as McClelland was raising his right arm. Brett was out, game over, Yankees win, 4–3.</p>
      <p class="indent">Brett immediately went about his stated mission.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        He stormed out of the dugout, red-faced, twice nearly choking on the chaw of tobacco in his left cheek as he screamed “
        <i>BULLSHIT!</i>
        ” a dozen times, as he lunged at McClelland in blind fury before being physically restrained by crew chief Joe Brinkman. The crowd, which had already begun to filter out, roared in delight. Howser was livid, his rumpled cap in his hand, his own anger unleashed. It was lunacy, of course, and even Brinkman, who’d rendered official final judgment, admitted as much afterward.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“It wouldn’t be a bit surprising if they changed that rule or threw it out altogether,” Brinkman said, conceding that pine tar in no way helped the flight of a baseball.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_198" title="198" />
        The Royals filed a protest. Brett vowed to quit if he was suspended for charging the umpires. The Yankees rejoiced; Gossage told Martin, “I honestly have no idea how he hit that pitch.” To which Martin winked, smiled and said, “What pitch?”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The matter went to MacPhail’s office. Nobody expected that to mean much.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Except.
        <i>Except</i>
        . MacPhail studied rule 1.10b four hundred times. He read all sixty-three words four hundred times. Suddenly, he saw it. Or, more precisely, its absence.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Nowhere in the rule does it say the batter shall be declared out.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        It simply says
        <i>the bat itself may no longer be used</i>
        .
      </p>
      <p class="indent">MacPhail knew how he had to rule. And also knew that nothing in 3,496 days of his tenure as president—including about 3,125 of them in which he’d had to field a complaint from Steinbrenner—was anything close to this. He had fewer than six months left on the job. The path of least resistance beckoned: uphold the ruling, promise to throw out the rule, grant Brett amnesty for his explosion, everyone moves on.</p>
      <p class="indent">“My conscience,” Lee MacPhail would say much later, “wouldn’t allow for the path of least resistance.”</p>
      <p class="indent">His conscience, instead, declared the home run should count, the game should be suspended from where it was the instant Brett’s ball soared over the wall, and it should be resumed on Thursday, August 18, the next mutual off-day for the clubs. Neither Brett nor Howser would be suspended for their antics, but both would be ejected from the game when it was picked up with two outs in the top of the ninth, Royals now up 5–4.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Although the umpires are being overruled, it is not the fault of the umpires,” MacPhail said. “Rather, it’s the fault of the official Playing Rules, which in some areas are unclear and unprecise.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The umps weren’t pleased—“All we were doing was our job when we called Brett out. We followed the letter of the law,” McClelland said—but that small brushfire was soon covered in lava thanks to Mount St. Steinbrenner.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I like Lee,” Steinbrenner said, “but I feel sorry for him. He made a
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_199" title="199" />
        very dumb decision, a putrid decision. He’s opened up a Pandora’s box and left his umpires out to dry.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner threatened to forfeit the game, then announced a festive day for camp kids instead, welcoming bands and attractions to Yankee Stadium for a two o’clock start; MacPhail doused those plans by pointing out the Royals would be flying from a game the night before and thus the resumption couldn’t start before six.</p>
      <p class="indent">Now Steinbrenner went full Vesuvius.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It sure tests our faith in leadership,” Steinbrenner said. “If the Yankees lose the American League pennant by one game, I wouldn’t want to be Lee MacPhail living in New York City. Maybe he should go house-hunting in Kansas City.”</p>
      <p class="indent">A few folks noticed that the owner of the New York Yankees had, in essence, hinted that the president of the American League might now be in harm’s way for rendering an unpopular decision. (Later, Bowie Kuhn would levy a $300,000 fine for Steinbrenner’s remarks, the steepest in the history of professional sports to that time.) Some called to ask Lee MacPhail’s thoughts on the matter. MacPhail stayed quiet.</p>
      <p class="indent">He had only 155 days left on the job.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Months earlier Steinbrenner</span>
        at last retired the folly that anyone other than he called the Yankees’ shots. His advisers had fled. Now he was left with a kitchen cabinet of men welcome to share dissenting opinions with George just as long as they were content with those suggestions being ignored.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I’ll listen to two or three trusted guys, then I’m going to make the damned decisions,” he said, shortly before ignoring those trusted guys and dusting off Billy Martin for a third ride through the pumpkin patch. “I’m going to take the full blame anyway. But damn it, if that’s the way it’s going to be, then it’s going to be
        <i>my</i>
        damned decisions.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner didn’t seem to quite appreciate the irony that while his own team had fallen from dominance in the AL East while he was making all the damned decisions, the rest of the division was catching them, and
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_200" title="200" />
        speeding by them, largely thanks to an unofficial Steinbrenner Alumni Association. There was Gabe Paul, who’d managed to make the Indians respectable again. There was Pat Gillick, formerly Paul’s assistant, hired by Toronto when the Blue Jays were born in 1977; within six years he’d built a formidable roster. There was old friend Ralph Houk, now managing the archrival Red Sox after doing a fine job with the Tigers. And there was Joe Altobelli, formerly a coach with the Yankees, now managing the Orioles, bound for the 1983 World Series title.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner vowed a few years earlier that he’d used his free agency muscle simply to speed up the Yankees’ timeline toward excellence, that his true desire was to build an organization that would yield younger, cheaper stars much like the Yankees machine of the forties, fifties and early sixties. But he never could help himself. He kept signing big-ticket players, his latest score slugging DH Don Baylor. Worse, he emptied his farm system in the name of adding vets, far too many of whom were well past their shelf lives.</p>
      <p class="indent">One prospect Steinbrenner kept was an Indianan named Donald Arthur Mattingly, a nineteenth-round pick by the Yankees in 1979 who immediately started raking. Yankees scouts all but covered him in laminate so the Boss wouldn’t be tempted to send him off to Seattle for a thirty-seven-year-old middle reliever or to Cleveland for a sore-kneed former speedster.</p>
      <p class="indent">“He is our crown jewel,” those scouts insisted.</p>
      <p class="indent">On this, Steinbrenner listened.</p>
      <p class="indent">Billy Martin . . . that was another issue. Steinbrenner was determined to give Martin more space this time around. He kept quiet when the Yankees endured another slow start. In June came reports that Martin was again showing up late for games, one time not arriving in the dugout until after the first pitch; there were other days Martin was spotted sleeping off a hangover in his office during batting practice. When the Yankees arrived in Milwaukee on June 9, they did so after receiving another Steinbrenner mandate to hold an off-day workout after losing five out of seven. When spies reported back to Steinbrenner that only eleven or twelve Yankees bothered to attend he was angry; when it was noted that one of the AWOL Yankees was the manager himself he exploded.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_201" title="201" />
        But there was
        <i>more</i>
        , and this was where the crazy started to metastasize.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        On June 11, as the Yankees dawdled through a 6–2 loss to the Brewers, the writers in the press box noticed something. On the TV monitors showing the local feed, the cameras trained their attention on an odd sight: Martin wasn’t standing on the top step of the dugout, which was almost always where he watched a game. He was sitting on a stool alongside the dugout, in front of the visiting club box. It took about a minute for the reporters to notice a woman in a bright yellow sundress sitting behind Martin, and they recognized her as Jill Guiver, Martin’s traveling companion, not to be confused with Heather Ervolino, to whom he was still married. Amazingly, a few minutes after
        <i>that</i>
        , the WVTV/Channel 18 cameras caught Guiver passing notes through the fence with her toes to a beaming Martin. As if the writers didn’t already realize what a bizarre twist this all was, the producer of the Yankees’ WPIX telecasts, Don Carney, came into the room asking if the writers intended to report this since he’d decided not to televise it.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner, red-faced, flew to New York. There was the usual barrage of will-he-or-won’t-he. He didn’t. He did tell Martin his team—still mired under .500—needed to start winning, and soon, or else he wouldn’t hesitate. They started winning. They chipped away. They were playing their best ball of the season when Billy Martin placed the baseball in Goose Gossage’s glove on July 24, when Gossage reared back, fired and sent a heater in the general direction of George Brett’s jaw.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Here’s how crazy</span>
        the 1983 season was: You could argue the nuttiest thing wasn’t the Pine Tar Game. You can actually argue that the Pine Tar Game’s reign as zaniest moment of the year lasted only eleven days. The Yankees were playing the Blue Jays at decrepit old Exhibition Stadium by the edge of Lake Ontario, a place that large white seagulls saw as a fine hunting ground for discarded bits of hot dogs, popcorn and pizza crusts. When the Jays were bad, the gulls often outnumbered the paying customers. On this Thursday night, they’d descended. On the field, before the bottom of the fifth of a game the Yankees would win 3–1, Winfield, playing center field, was warming up with a catch with Don Baylor in left. As the inning started,
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_202" title="202" />
        Winfield turned and whipped the ball to a ball boy. A seagull happened to be standing between them, maybe a hundred feet away.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Bad luck for the seagull.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “
        <i>Pffft</i>
        ,” was how Yankees bullpen coach Jeff Torborg described what happened when Winfield’s one-hopper bounced up and beaned the bird. “Right in the head.
        <i>Pow!</i>
        ”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Another ball boy sprinted to the gull, carefully wrapped it in a towel. Winfield placed his cap over his heart; maybe he was genuinely sorry. The Toronto crowd of 36,684 thought otherwise. They started chanting obscenities at Winfield. After the game, Winfield was greeted in the dugout by local authorities and charged with cruelty to animals; in Canada, it seems, the seagull was a protected species. The Yankees had to post $500 bail, and the flight home was delayed forty minutes.</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin, for one, found the whole thing hilarious.</p>
      <p class="indent">“They obviously haven’t been watching him throw all year,” he said. “That’s the first time he’s hit the cutoff man.”</p>
      <p class="indent">This time the Yankees gladly accepted Lee MacPhail’s offer to smooth things over with the Canadian authorities, and the matter was quickly dropped. But that was a temporary truce. As August 18 crept closer, things slowly went haywire in the Bronx. First, the team collapsed. From the moment Brett’s ball left the yard until the moment the Yankees and Royals stepped on the field to finish off the game, the Yankees went 12–13, and were staring down a fourteenth loss once play resumed. They were still only three and a half games back but were now buried in fifth place.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Then the morning of the eighteenth, Steinbrenner found a sympathetic voice in Justice Orest V. Maresca of the State Supreme Court in the Bronx, located two blocks from Yankee Stadium; Maresca granted an injunction forbidding the game from being played. Anticipating that, the American League immediately appealed, raced to Centre Street in Manhattan to the New York State Supreme Court and encountered none other than Roy Cohn, the flamboyant attorney best known as an eager Communist witch-hunter for Senator Joseph R. McCarthy thirty years earlier. Cohn argued that allowing the game could cause near-riot conditions because Yankee
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_203" title="203" />
        Stadium security was only one-quarter staffed. Justice Joseph Sullivan found that to be amusing.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">At three thirty he said, “My ruling can best be summed up in two words: ‘Play ball!’”</p>
      <p class="indent">Sullivan urged the Yankees to make sure there were no genuine security breaches; there were none. Despite selling tickets for $2.50 apiece, exactly 1,245 people showed up (although Mattingly put the number closer to five hundred and Ron Guidry said, authoritatively, “Two fifty. Tops”). Some of that could be blamed on a railroad strike called that day by a suburban commuter service, but that didn’t prevent some seventy thousand people from cramming Shea Stadium on the other side of the Triboro Bridge to see a triple bill of R.E.M., Joan Jett &amp; the Blackhearts and the Police, which kicked off at almost exactly the same time.</p>
      <p class="indent">Those who did show up witnessed a bit of baseball burlesque.</p>
      <p class="indent">First, as the Yankees took the field to play the top of the ninth, they saw Guidry, a starting pitcher, trot out to center field and Mattingly, a lefty, go out to play second base. That was a small protest by Martin. Then, before George Frazier could throw a pitch against Hal McRae, Martin ordered Frazier to throw the ball to Ken Griffey, at first, and then to Roy Smalley, standing on second, officially protesting that either U. L. Washington or George Brett had failed to touch those bases twenty-five days before. Both times, crew chief Dave Phillips waved safe.</p>
      <p class="indent">Now Martin was ready to pounce.</p>
      <p class="indent">“How do you know they touched them?” he demanded. Martin had been cooking this scheme for weeks, because he knew the four umpires on the field now were different from the four who’d worked the game on July 24. There was no way they could possibly know with certainty that the two Royals in question had, in fact, stepped on all the bases.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Now Lee MacPhail threw the final counterpunch of a Hall of Fame career. Martin was never one to keep his genius to himself, and he’d told a few people what he planned to do. One of them had alerted MacPhail. So when Martin reached Phillips, the umpire removed from his back pocket a sworn document signed by Tim McClelland, Drew Coble, Joe Brinkman
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_204" title="204" />
        and Nick Bremigan that they’d witnessed both Washington and Brett touch every base on their tour home.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Billy,” Phillips said, “I have an affidavit.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“An affi-what?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Dan Quisenberry retired the Yankees one, two, three in the bottom of the inning. There were still forty-four games left in the season, but the season was done.</p>
      <p class="indent">And so, soon thereafter, was Billy Martin. For a third time.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Carmen Berra had</span>
        seen for years the way the public responded to her husband, in New York and beyond. If he wasn’t the most beloved sports figure in America, he was in the team photo. She’d seen how devastated he’d been when the Yankees fired him in 1964, two days after guiding them to Game 7 of the World Series. She’d seen how disappointed he’d been in 1975, when he’d been let go by the Mets less than two years after leading
        <i>them</i>
        to Game 7 as well. Both times, she supported Berra crossing team lines to stay in the game, first serving as Mets coach from 1965 to 1971, then returning to the Yankees in 1976.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Carm said, ‘Why don’t you just make a living being Yogi?’” Berra said in 2009, sitting inside the museum that bears his name in his adopted hometown of Montclair, New Jersey. “We were lucky, we’d saved a lot of money. I could golf five times a week and sign autographs twice a month and we’d be happy. ‘Just be Yogi,’ she told me. It made a lot of sense.”</p>
      <p class="indent">But Berra was fifty-eight in December 1983, knew he had time for one more shot at winning a World Series as a manager, and the Yankees were loading up. He’d seen Don Mattingly blossom into a star in 1983, knew Dave Winfield already was. He also knew George Steinbrenner was going to replace Billy Martin. Despite winning ninety-one games, the lingering issues were still lingering, and now there was a story about Martin having a drunken screaming match with a flight attendant. It was too much. Martin would be asked to stay in the organization as an adviser, a simple way to collect his $250,000 salary.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner needed a manager.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_205" title="205" />
        Berra said yes.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner swore he’d let Berra be Berra all year in 1984 and, in truth, even if he’d wanted to change his mind there was little use. The Tigers jumped out to a 35–5 start, by which point the Yankees were already seventeen and a half games behind. The Yankees closed the season red-hot, 51–29. Mattingly and Winfield went down to the season’s final day battling for the batting championship, with Mattingly prevailing .343 to .340 (and also demonstrating a power stroke he’d never flashed in the minors, twenty-three homers, 110 RBIs). And while the same critiques that always haunted Berra reappeared—he was too soft with his players, too friendly, unwilling to rip them or burn them—Steinbrenner had to admit he’d done a hell of a job. He also knew Berra wasn’t Martin. Yankees fans liked Martin, a lot.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        But they
        <i>adored</i>
        Berra, who wanted one more year, this time with the most dynamic player in the sport, Rickey Henderson, before retiring to the golf course for good.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">In late October, in one of the most sensible decisions he ever made, Steinbrenner announced Berra would be back in 1985. But he wouldn’t—couldn’t—stop there.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I just can’t understand all these teams changing managers the way they do,” said the man who’d made at least one change in the manager’s chair in eight straight years until this very moment. “The lack of stability is alarming. It’s startling to me how many teams change managers now. It’s getting to where you can’t even make news anymore when you make a change.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Of course, if you thought
        <i>that</i>
        was funny, Steinbrenner had a genuine gut-buster waiting for folks the next February, the day the full team reported for spring training.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Yogi Berra will be the manager this year,” he said. “I said the same thing last year and I’m saying it again. A bad start will not affect Yogi’s status. I have put a lot of pressure on managers in the past to win at certain times. That will not be the case this spring. I’m not going to worry if we lose a game to Boston or to the Mets.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Perhaps you’ve heard that one before.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
