<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 14</title>
    <link href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch14">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_157" title="157" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch14">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch14">Chapter 14</a>
      </h1>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="epi_pb">
          <i>I’m not a guy who ever wanted to see my name in lights. I’ve seen people like that. When things go bad, those kinds of guys are the first to get hurt.</i>
        </p>
        <p class="epi_at">—Dick Howser</p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">M</span>
        ost of what people saw, and heard, was anecdotal and, hell, it was kind of funny, too. From the moment George Steinbrenner assumed control of the Yankees he referred to himself as The Boss, capital “T,” capital “B.” Sparky Lyle won the Cy Young Award? There’d be a bouquet of roses for his wife signed
        <i>The Boss</i>
        . Catfish Hunter pitched a shutout? There’d be a magnum of champagne awaiting him on his locker stool, with a card that said
        <i>Congrats! The Boss</i>
        . It used to infuriate Billy Martin when he’d receive a memorandum on just about anything—player decorum, second-guessing a hit-and-run, the incompetence of various umpires across the American League—signed simply
        <i>The Boss</i>
        .
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        But it was on August 17, 1979, when Mike Lupica, writing in the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        , first referred to him as “Boss Steinbrenner,” and almost immediately that became the appellation of choice for just about every newspaper save for the
        <i>Times</i>
        . Lupica borrowed the term from Mike Royko, whose bestselling book on Chicago mayor Richard J. Daley had been titled
        <i>Boss</i>
        and who often referred to him in his
        <i>Chicago Daily News</i>
        columns as “Boss Daley.” Headline writers for the next thirty-one years
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_158" title="158" />
        borrowed from Lupica, “Boss” being a lot more headline-friendly than “Steinbrenner.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span class="smallcaps">BOSS RAPS BILLY</span>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span class="smallcaps">JAX BLASTS BOSS</span>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span class="smallcaps">BOSS FIRES STICK</span>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The occasional story from a former secretary, or an ex-PR man—by 1980 he was on his fourth one; he went through them like pitching coaches—would surface about how hard a boss he was, how irrational he could be based upon the whims of his day. But it wasn’t until the night of October 9, 1980, when the rest of the world got an uncomfortably up-close look at it. The Yankees won 103 games under rookie manager Dick Howser, then dropped Game 1 of the American League Championship Series to the Royals in Kansas City and were trailing in the eighth of Game 2, 3–2, with two outs and Willie Randolph on first. As Bob Watson stepped to the plate, the ABC TV cameras pointed to an intense observer sitting among Yankees executives and the wives of players and coaches.</p>
      <p class="indent">“There’s a man,” play-by-play man Al Michaels said, “who won’t be happy until he has a team that goes 162–0.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“He just wants to win,” said one of Michaels’s analysts, a guy moonlighting from his day job in Oakland, California, by the name of Billy Martin.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Don’t we all?” asked Jim Palmer, third man in the booth.</p>
      <p class="indent">Royals pitcher Dennis Leonard got a couple of quick strikes on Watson, but then Watson yanked an inside pitch down the left field line. Willie Wilson retrieved the ball as Randolph—who’d tripped running from first—roared around the base path as the tying run. When Wilson overthrew shortstop U. L. Washington, the cutoff man, it looked like Randolph would score easily.</p>
      <p class="indent">That’s sure what Mike Ferraro, coaching third base, thought.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Ferraro waved Randolph home, though Randolph had already made up his own mind to do that. What neither man anticipated was that the Royals had third baseman George Brett purposefully backing up Washington. That’s not a common play, but for the Royals it was part of their defensive
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_159" title="159" />
        plan. Brett wheeled and threw to Darrell Porter behind the plate. Randolph was beaten by two steps, tried a hard slide to jostle the ball free. It didn’t work. The Yankees lost 3–2, and the next night, back in New York, the Royals finished up a sweep when Brett hit an upper-deck three-run shot, late, off Goose Gossage.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">A few seconds after home plate umpire Joe Brinkman punched out Randolph, ABC went with a full-screen replay of Steinbrenner reacting to the play, the Boss wearing approximately the same expression as if he’d been T-boned on the Cross Bronx Expressway. He flailed his arms. He pulled his blue blazer on and stormed toward the aisle.</p>
      <p class="indent">What the camera didn’t catch was Steinbrenner staring down Ferraro’s wife as he walked past her, sneering, “Your husband just cost us the damn season!”</p>
      <p class="indent">Although if there was any doubt how Steinbrenner was feeling, he was plenty helpful filling in the blanks after the game was over.</p>
      <p class="indent">“My guys didn’t lose this one,” he steamed. “We got taken out of this one.”</p>
      <p class="indent">It probably didn’t help Steinbrenner’s mood that Martin, settling into his new job as a baseball Walter Cronkite, said on ABC: “Mike was right sending him home. Every time a guy makes a great play people blame the third base coach. It’s the hardest job in baseball.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner was unmoved.</p>
      <p class="indent">“He’s been doing this all year,” he said. “I never wanted him at third, I thought he belonged somewhere else. I told that to Dick Howser over and over again.”</p>
      <p class="indent">In some ways, this was simply the capstone to a slow but steady sea change for Steinbrenner. He no longer had Martin as a daily foil in 1980. Jackson, playing like he’d been released from a prison camp, enjoyed the best season of his career, hitting .300 for the first time, forty-one homers, finishing second in the MVP vote. On August 11 he blasted his four hundredth career home run, only the twentieth player to reach that mark at that point; there wasn’t much for Steinbrenner to find fault with there, either.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_160" title="160" />
        He’d found other targets. When Graig Nettles got off to a slow start (and before he was shelved the final two months with a frightening case of hepatitis), Steinbrenner began to poke that bear regularly, harping on Nettles’s weight, insistent the third baseman had ballooned past where a proud professional athlete should (which was odd; Nettles was never going to be confused with Chicken Stanley but he hardly looked like Don Zimmer, either). Steinbrenner made a mistake picking a verbal fight with Nettles, though, who was one of the most quick-witted players in baseball. After his hepatitis diagnosis, for instance, when he was told his Yankees teammates would need to be inoculated, he said, “I feel bad for Louie [Tiant, who by this late stage of his career was tipping the scales around 240-plus]; they’re gonna need a harpoon for him.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">With Steinbrenner, Nettles waited, sharpening his needle. One day, as he was emerging from the clubhouse shower, he saw a crowd gathered around his locker; Steinbrenner had set up shop there, just under Nettles’s nameplate, and was busy filling notebooks and tape recorders. And, well, overfilling his own trousers, truth be told.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “Goddamn, Steinbrenner’s right,” Graig said. “Nettles really
        <i>is</i>
        a fat piece of shit.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But it was Nettles’s backup, a pleasant professional hitter named Eric Soderholm, who presented evidence that not all the Boss’s barbs so easily and innocently rolled off the backs of his high-priced employees. Soderholm missed a season to a blown-out knee, won Comeback Player of the Year after that, and when he arrived to the 1980 Yankees he started mashing left-handed pitching as the Yankees built a big lead; he was hitting .351 in mid-July. But as the Yankees came back to the pack, Soderholm fell to earth. And one day, he picked up a newspaper and saw this:</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m not saying Soderholm is a bad ballplayer. He just hasn’t been doing the job for us. If we are going to win it, we have to get production out of Eric Soderholm, who is hitting just terribly. He’s left more men on base than I care to count.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        At the time of Steinbrenner’s impromptu public job evaluation, Soderholm was at a respectable .285. He did not handle the scolding well,
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_161" title="161" />
        tumbling into a three-week tailspin. He actually sought out the help of a therapist to deal with the matter and talked about that freely, a remarkable admission for a 1980 baseball clubhouse.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I’ve been worrying myself into the nuthouse,” he admitted a few weeks later, after his two-RBI single gave the Yankees a critical walk-off win against Cleveland. “I would’ve been a lot better off if [Steinbrenner] just called me into his office and privately asked me what the matter was.”</p>
      <p class="indent">That wasn’t the Steinbrenner way. In later years, as veteran players watched the impact Steinbrenner’s harangues would cause newcomers, they’d invent a word for it: The player had been “George-ed.” But they also had an alternate term for this plague: “Soderholm’s disease.” In 1981, Larry Milbourne was playing his first season for the Yankees after seven quiet, happy years in Houston and Seattle. In a game against the Indians, Milbourne made two errors, leading to a loss. Afterward, knowing he was about to become a Steinbrenner dartboard, Milbourne started muttering to no one in particular.</p>
      <p class="indent">“What’s it going to be like? Does he do it to your face? Do I have to wait until the papers to read what he’s going to say? Is there a chance he wasn’t watching the game?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Nettles and Bucky Dent happened upon this mid-stream, listened carefully, like Beatles fans searching for Paul-is-dead clues by slowly spinning a record backward. Then, at the end, they turned to each other, reached the same diagnosis.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Soderholm’s disease,” they agreed.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">The 1980 season</span>
        had, for the most part, been a dream ride. Dick Howser was an instant success. The Yankees assumed first place for good on May 2, stayed there for the season’s final 157 days, their lead peaking at nine and a half on July 17. Jackson was over the moon with the new manager.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Honestly,” he said on July 31, after hitting his twenty-ninth homer of the year, “it feels like someone opened a door and a few windows and let the air in here for a change.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_162" title="162" />
        Billy Martin wasn’t looming over his shoulder anymore. On February 21, he signed on to become manager for his hometown Oakland Athletics, trading in one opinionated owner for another when he agreed to work for Charlie Finley. The only holdup had been Finley’s insistence that Steinbrenner cover about a third of Martin’s salary and Steinbrenner balked. A friend of Steinbrenner’s explained, “He may dislike Billy. But he hates Finley a
        <i>lot</i>
        more.” Adding to the intrigue, when Martin’s Tigers and Finley’s A’s met in the 1972 AL playoffs they’d engaged in a war of words in which Martin had said this of Finley: “He’s a liar. I hate liars with a passion.
        <i>He’s a born liar</i>
        .”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">You really can’t make any of this up.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Martin, for his part, did what he usually did when inheriting an expired franchise. In 1979 the hollowed-out A’s had gone 54–108 just five years after winning their third straight championship. They’d drawn only 306,763 people to cavernous Oakland-Alameda Coliseum and Finley nearly moved the team to Denver. His fellow owners blocked that move, one final fuck-you-for-the-road to Finley, who promptly announced he’d sell the team once and for all. Then he hired Martin. And soon “Billy Ball” became a fever in Northern California. The 1980 A’s won eighty-three games. They more than doubled their attendance, to 842,259. And Martin signed on for $300,000 to write a tell-all book called
        <i>Number 1</i>
        .
      </p>
      <p class="indent">He even buried the hatchet with Steinbrenner—temporarily. In early June, with the Yankees winning three out of four in Oakland, Steinbrenner sent a telegram to Martin congratulating him for turning things around with the A’s and noting that Oakland would be in New York on June 21—Old-Timers’ Day, which was now becoming regularly integrated into the Martin/Yankees narrative. Steinbrenner invited Martin not only to take part in the ceremony but also to wear his Yankees uniform. Martin had sworn after his last firing, “I’ll never wear the pinstripes the rest of my life,” and as a final kick of dirt said, “George is sick, I really believe that.” But Steinbrenner knew his quarry too well to believe he’d show up for the ceremony in the garish green-and-yellow vestments of the A’s.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Martin wore the pinstripes, and he jogged out to an extended ovation.
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_163" title="163" />
        Before that Martin and Steinbrenner would reprise their Miller Lite glory days by filming a Pepto-Bismol commercial Friday morning, Martin chiding that he got his part down in just three takes while “George needed fifty-seven of them.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">(This time the punch line had Martin holding a bottle of the pink stomach-relief goop and saying, “I’ll take a swig of this!” Steinbrenner emerges from a crowd and says, “Billy, can you use a spoon?” and Martin exclaims, “Oh noooo!”)</p>
      <p class="indent">A few weeks later, excerpts of Martin’s book would end the era of good feeling. Though Martin mostly spared Jackson his wrath, he infuriated Steinbrenner with several accusations, notably that Steinbrenner had bugged Martin’s telephones at Yankee Stadium to monitor his conversations. Steinbrenner flatly denied it and threatened to sue; Martin agreed to omit that and several other shaky allegations from future printings, but that seemed, for all the world, to be the denouement of this odd and tempestuous relationship.</p>
      <p class="indent">Silly world.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Howser quickly showed</span>
        how different he was from Martin. Jackson strolled into camp two days late, and in past years that would’ve been kindling for a five-alarm fire; Howser simply smiled when asked about it, said dryly, “That’s for Gene Michael and George Steinbrenner to worry about.” When Jackson finally arrived they met privately; Howser fined Jackson same as he would anyone else and left it at that.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">His players tested Howser periodically. Luis Tiant, angry at being removed from a game, threw the ball down before Howser could take it from him, then heaved his glove into the stands. Howser stalked Tiant into the clubhouse, gave him a private earful and fined him $500. Tiant apologized. More wounding to Howser was the behavior of Bobby Murcer and Lou Piniella, two of his closest friends, who publicly sniped at Howser for lack of playing time. Murcer’s betrayal especially stung; Howser had a large picture of their families hanging prominently in his office. One angry night in Anaheim Murcer cut him deep: “You’re talking to the wrong guy about Howser. Better ask someone who likes him.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_164" title="164" />
        Howser shook that off publicly, but privately the men never repaired their relationship (Piniella, for his part, did apologize a few years later and asked Howser’s forgiveness, which he granted). Howser knew if Murcer was willing to share that much with the sportswriters, the reports he was delivering his pal in the owner’s box must be even more devastating. He was right.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">In years past, when Steinbrenner entangled himself in back-page black ops, he did so mostly to prevent his regular sparring partners, Martin and Jackson, from getting the last word in against him and partly—he would admit later—for “the spectacle of it. It kept people talking about the Yankees every day of the year.” And while the sentiments might have been harsh, in the end they were mostly harmless. Mostly.</p>
      <p class="indent">In 1980 Steinbrenner first revealed a less-agreeable public trait that would tail him the rest of his days. The Orioles began to peck away at the Yankees’ lead, reducing it to five as the teams began a critical eight-games-in-eleven-days stretch on August 8. Steinbrenner was already uncomfortable with Howser’s quiet strength, his unwillingness to humiliate struggling players or engage his frustrated boss. In advance of the Orioles series Howser said, “I never believed the standings when we were nine ahead of the Orioles. I knew they were a damn good team.”</p>
      <p class="indent">That did not play well with Steinbrenner, whose mood was doubly foul because of Earl Weaver, the Orioles’ fiery manager, whose tactics Steinbrenner publicly deplored but whose managerial acumen (and gleeful willingness to slug it out with umpires) he privately cheered. Envied, even. Then the Orioles went out and swept the Yankees at Yankee Stadium, took three out of five in Baltimore. The Orioles were within two and a half games as both teams headed west for identical trips through Seattle, Anaheim and Oakland.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I expect to go home from this road trip in first place,” Sammy Stewart, an Orioles relief pitcher, said. “The Yankees have George Steinbrenner getting on them now, and I think maybe they’re looking over their shoulder.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He was right on both counts. The Yankees were now girding for a legit pennant race.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_165" title="165" />
        The owner was officially spooked. By the time the Yankees reached Seattle Howser was greeted by this observation from on high: “As a fan, I have a right to question Howser’s strategy. He knows his job rests on the bottom line and the bottom line is winning. You’ve got to give Earl Weaver all the credit. He’s a wizard, and our guy’s a rookie manager. I wouldn’t invite Weaver to Christmas dinner, but you’ve got to give the devil his due.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Howser’s players read that. They also saw how Howser responded. He gathered the writers around him. He pointed to Maury Wills, another first-year manager, who was leading the Mariners, and he complimented Wills. Then, smiling thinly, he added this:</p>
      <p class="indent">“You know, now that I’m competing against a rookie manager I know it’s very important for me to win.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The smile widened just a hair.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees won twenty-eight of their final thirty-seven games even though Weaver tried to trash-talk his way into Steinbrenner’s head in September.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “The 1964 Phillies,” he said one day, referring to a team that famously blew a six-and-a-half-game lead with twelve games to go, “those poor bastards have been remembered forever. Hell, it’s time somebody fucked up to get them off the hook. I hear George Steinbrenner is building a boat and calling it ‘the
        <i>Titanic</i>
        .’”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Weaver would have to settle for one hundred wins and second place. Steinbrenner’s team would play in the ALCS for the fourth time in five years.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">In many ways,</span>
        1980 was the pinnacle of George Steinbrenner’s ascendance. The Yankees would set an American League attendance record with 2,627,417 paying customers. Early on, those fans would be treated to the start of a tradition that would last, uninterrupted, well into the next century.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        One day in June Steinbrenner walked from his press-level office at Yankee Stadium into the main stadium. Steinbrenner had become quite the
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_166" title="166" />
        aficionado of the city’s finest nightspots—not just 21 for him anymore—and this included “Le Club,” a trendy discotheque located on East Fifty-Fifth Street, steps from the FDR Drive. Steinbrenner wanted to expand the stadium’s musical selections from the standard between-innings organ stylings of Eddie Layton to some more contemporary-sounding numbers. A disc jockey at Le Club made a few suggestions, none of which moved the needle in Steinbrenner’s imagination.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Then the DJ sent a tape of a song he’d been playing regularly from one of Steinbrenner’s all-time favorites, Frank Sinatra. Steinbrenner heard “New York, New York” plenty, because it was impossible to own a radio that spring and not hear it.</p>
      <p class="indent">But he was about to hear it a whole different way.</p>
      <p class="indent">“CBS didn’t leave a lot of memorable legacies,” says author Marty Appel, Steinbrenner’s one-time PR chief. “But they did install a state-of-the-art public-address system in 1967, using their very best technicians to enhance the sound. That was still in use in 1980 and still gave you chills.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Now an electrician hooked “New York, New York” into that system and hit Play.</p>
      <p class="indent">It was thrilling.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then, for the first time, Steinbrenner paid attention to the lyrics—and for a kid from Cleveland who dreamed his whole life of making it in New York, you can only imagine the impact of hearing Sinatra sing, “These little-town blues . . . are melting away . . .”</p>
      <p class="indent">But that wasn’t what sold him.</p>
      <p class="indent">This sold him:</p>
      <p class="indent">“A number one . . . top of the list . . .”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <i>“That’s us!”</i>
        Steinbrenner exclaimed in the empty ballpark
        <i>. “That’s the YANKEES!”</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Immediately—as in the very next game, a date lost to the fog of history but somewhere awfully close to June 16 or so, the start of a thirteen-game home stand—the final out of every game was greeted with the cymbals, with
        <i>bob-bop-BOP-ba-bop</i>
        , with “Start spreadin’ the news . . .”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_167" title="167" />
        Forty-five years (and counting) later, an essential part of the rhythm of a Yankees game is walking out of the ballpark to the Chairman crooning about his vagabond shoes, longing to stray (although, early in 2025, it was announced that the Yankees would play the song only after wins; after losses they’d use an array, with an early candidate another Sinatra standard: “That’s Life”).
      </p>
      <p class="indent">There was much joy on 161st Street and River Avenue.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        But then, come October, Steinbrenner found himself congratulating Royals owner Ewing Kauffman and pretending he was happy about it. At the dawn of free agency Kauffman told the
        <i>Sporting News</i>
        : “When I talk about ego and pleasure in owning a major-league club, I’d say the Yankees situation is a little one-sided. George takes all the ego trips.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner went home to Tampa to sulk and think. He remembered the little shots Howser took at him. He decided he wanted Don Zimmer to coach third base and send Ferraro off to baseball Siberia. He began compiling a list of requirements Dick Howser—winner of 103 games his first time out of the chute—would have to agree to in order to come back for the second year of a three-year, $300,000 deal. Howser figured maybe he’d earned a little more trust, maybe even a bit of respect.</p>
      <p class="indent">“As a manager,” he said, “I should be able to say who’s going to coach and who’s not going to coach.”</p>
      <p class="indent">That was as good as writing a resignation note.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Howser, I can’t figure out,” the Boss fumed. “I am upset. My staff and I are in agreement: We are not quite ready for Dick Howser to start running the New York Yankees totally yet. Please quote me on that, too.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Actually, Steinbrenner’s most trusted staffer and the man who, theoretically,
        <i>was</i>
        running the Yankees, Gene Michael, was immediately trying to do damage control. If Steinbrenner hadn’t noticed how completely the Yankees and their fans had fallen for Howser, Michael certainly did. He’d seen Howser grow into the job. Michael and Howser were teammates on the Yankees in 1968, and they’d both been targeted early as future manager/GM candidates, Howser by Ralph Houk (who’d made him his third base coach at age thirty-three, in 1969) and Michael by Steinbrenner.
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_168" title="168" />
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          Although it started as something of an odd partnership. One day early in the 1973 season, the Yankees were playing the Rangers in Arlington. During infield practice Michael—skinny as an exclamation point his whole life, thus nicknamed “Stick”—suddenly tossed his glove and let out a piercing shriek. Michael was deathly afraid of bugs and critters and thought he felt something in his glove. He had. It was a hot dog.
        </p>
        <p class="exti3">As Houk reported to an angry Steinbrenner later: “Someone put a weenie in there.”</p>
        <p class="exti3">Steinbrenner didn’t find anything about this funny and tried in vain to identify the weenie wielder. “You’ve heard of omerta, the code of silence gagsters use?”</p>
        <p class="extiz">Michael said years later, laughing, “That was Yankees omerta.”</p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">Michael understood if he wasn’t able to calm Steinbrenner, his own days as GM—his dream job—would be numbered because Steinbrenner would expect him, Michael, to succeed Howser. Michael believed he was far better suited to the GM gig than the skipper’s office (as would be proven correct). He wasn’t able to calm Steinbrenner; if anything when he saw how much support Howser was accumulating it hardened him further. On November 21, Steinbrenner invited a handpicked crew of fourteen newsmen to his office at Yankee Stadium. Gene Michael was there. So was Dick Howser.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Dick has decided,” Steinbrenner said, “that he will not be returning to the Yankees next year. I should say: not returning to the Yankees as manager.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Michael was quiet. So was Howser. Steinbrenner insisted Howser could have returned if he’d wanted, without restrictions. He was selling that version hard.</p>
      <p class="indent">Someone asked Howser why he didn’t want to stay. Howser waited a few seconds to answer, then said: “I have to be cautious here, but the other thing ‘popped up.’”</p>
      <p class="indent">Howser stared straight ahead. He was asked if he was satisfied that he could’ve returned without conditions.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_169" title="169" />
        “I’d rather not comment on that,” he said quietly.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Were you fired, Dick?” he was asked directly.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m not going to comment on that,” he said.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I didn’t fire the man!” Steinbrenner insisted.</p>
      <p class="indent">That didn’t play, not to the cynical newsmen in the room, not to Yankees fans at large. Howser was still due $200,000. He wasn’t going to jeopardize that. He took the Fifth, then took a flight to Tallahassee, where he knew there would be other suitors calling soon. Midway through the 1981 season he was hired by Kansas City. In 1985, he led the Royals to their first-ever world championship. It would take a while, but Steinbrenner would ultimately agree with the way everyone else took the news of November 21, 1980.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’ve made two awful mistakes in my time,” Steinbrenner said. “One was letting Dick Howser go.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The other was just around the corner.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
