<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 12</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch12">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_129" title="129" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch12">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch12">Chapter 12</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>Being a boss is the loneliest place in the world. When things go wrong, when there’s criticism, who takes the heat? I do. You have to be thick-skinned in my position.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—George Steinbrenner</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">B</span>
        illy Martin finally had things exactly as he’d always wanted. Reggie Jackson was out of his hair, suspended five games for insubordination. In his absence, the 1978 Yankees were playing championship-level ball, and when they beat the White Sox 3–1 that afternoon at Comiskey Park it was their fifth straight win. The Red Sox, who’d spent most of the season’s first three months playing at a 113-win pace, had cooled off, and the Yankees chopped four games off a fourteen-game lead.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“If they don’t sense us coming,” Martin said, “they’re crazy.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson returned from what Martin snidely called “his vacation” that day but hadn’t gotten off the bench. Before, there was a crowd five-deep at his locker in the cramped visitor’s clubhouse. Sportscaster Dick Schaap had patiently waited out the crowd.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Reggie,” Schaap began, “what was uppermost on your mind during your suspension?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson paused a beat, looking for the precise words.</p>
      <p class="indent">“The magnitude,” he said, “of me.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Jackson was uppermost on Martin’s mind. After eighteen months of
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_130" title="130" />
        bickering and bitterness Jackson finally leaped across the line to insubordinate, to such an extent that even George Steinbrenner refused to defend him. When Martin said he’d wanted Jackson suspended, Steinbrenner agreed, then supported his manager. Now Jackson was back. Martin would need to arrange a working truce with Jackson even if he wished he could simply trade him, or release him, or ignore him.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Still: He was in a good mood. He had a few beers to take the edge off in the manager’s office, and when he arrived at O’Hare and saw the team flight to Kansas City was delayed, he ducked into a bar. A few of the Yankees’ beat writers spotted him there. They were about to sour his day.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Reggie wouldn’t apologize,” he was told. “He said he didn’t do anything wrong.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin’s face darkened.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Shut up, Reggie Jackson,” he said. “We don’t need more of your crap. We’re winning without you.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The writers scribbled furiously.</p>
      <p class="indent">One asked, “Are you sure you want this on the record?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Print it,” Martin said, ordering another round.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The reporters scrambled to find pay phones so the smoking-hot quotes could be included in their first-edition stories. Not long after, the Yankees were summoned to the gate to board. Martin saw two of the writers, Murray Chass of the
        <i>Times</i>
        and Henry Hecht of the
        <i>Post</i>
        , and asked if they’d printed what he said. Chass nodded; Hecht, whose paper had afternoon deadlines, said he would as soon as the plane landed in Kansas City. Martin was pleased. He also seemed, all things considered, reasonably sober despite having quaffed five or six drinks.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I’ve seen him drunk enough times to know the difference,” Hecht would later say.</p>
      <p class="indent">But Martin was still angry. And standing with the two reporters, he got angrier still.</p>
      <p class="indent">And out it came.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “The two of them deserve each other,” Martin said, and Hecht and
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_131" title="131" />
        Chass heard enough of these rants to know whom he was referring to. And then came the kicker:
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“One’s a born liar, the other’s convicted.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Things had actually</span>
        been relatively peaceful, certainly compared to the carnival act of 1977. There were few incidents to speak of in spring training. Reggie Jackson showed up a day late but with permission: He’d attended a press gathering at the Plaza Hotel introducing Standard Brands Confectionery’s brand-new contribution to sweet-toothed bliss.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">It was a dark patty made of chocolate, caramel and nuts—some wise guy cracked it looked like “kind of a Baby Ruth bar if Thurman Munson sat on it.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The man had said if he ever played in New York they’d name a candy bar after him and damned if he wasn’t biting into a “Reggie!” bar right now.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Good and gooey!” said the man whose swing-from-the-heels image was featured on the bright orange wrapper.</p>
      <p class="indent">When Jackson drove into camp in his Rolls he was immediately greeted by razzing teammates, the first sign of clubhouse acceptance.</p>
      <p class="indent">“When you unwrap a Reggie! bar,” Catfish Hunter said, “it tells you how good it is.”</p>
      <p class="indent">There were some moments, sure, but the six weeks in Florida were practically sedate. The Yankees even beat the Mets both times they played, although the first time it took a six-run ninth-inning rally to do it, a few innings after Steinbrenner showed up in the dugout, in the middle of the game, the Yankees trailing 6–3, to offer a little Knute Rockne pep talk to the players, remind them they were champions of the world even if they damn sure didn’t look like the champions of New York right now.</p>
      <p class="indent">“George,” Martin said, “get the fuck out of my dugout.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Opening Day at Yankee Stadium was glorious. After twelve years Roger Maris ended his exile from the Bronx as a favor to Steinbrenner, and together with Mickey Mantle they helped raise the first world championship pennant to grace the premises since 1962, when the M&amp;M Boys were the heart of the lineup. The Yankees beat the White Sox, and Jackson hit
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_132" title="132" />
        a home run, and the crowd showered the field with the free Reggie! bars they’d been handed upon entering the yard.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I guess they’re better for throwin’ than for tastin’, eh, Reg?” Hunter asked.</p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson laughed.</p>
      <p class="indent">The Red Sox soared out of the starting gate in 1978. They won sixty-two of their first ninety, and on July 19 that meant a fourteen-game lead over the Yankees, languishing in fourth. The Yanks weren’t playing all that differently than they had to a similar point in 1977, but they weren’t chasing Secretariat then. Or, as Jackson said in a quiet Fenway Park clubhouse after a 9–2 loss in June, referring to the recent Triple Crown winner: “Not even Affirmed could catch the Red Sox right now.”</p>
      <p class="indent">George Steinbrenner was in a fix. He’d vowed to take a few steps back and let his baseball people handle his baseball team. Gabe Paul had fled to Cleveland when his friend Steve O’Neill bought the Indians and promised Paul tranquility and full control of baseball operations, neither of which Paul would ever truly get with the Yankees. He was sixty-seven and tired of the daily wars with Steinbrenner. His departure was amicable, although that would change when he sold his interest in the Yankees. Steinbrenner offered $60,000. Paul, as was his right, found a buyer for almost twice that, but he came with partners. Steinbrenner was trying to reduce the number of cooks in his kitchen. It got heated.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner: “Gabe was in business for forty years, twenty-five as a general manager, and did he ever win a pennant before? You think he made all those moves with this team by himself? You think all of a sudden he got brilliant?”</p>
      <p class="indent">Paul: “The guy is a mental case, a liar, an egomaniac, and a crook, and that’s a pretty good parlay.” Paul sued Steinbrenner, then withdrew when Steinbrenner finally agreed to his price and bought back the share himself.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        To replace Paul, Steinbrenner turned to an old friend from Cleveland, Al Rosen, a terrific player for Cleveland in the 1950s, winning the MVP in 1953. Rosen befriended Steinbrenner when both were pursuing Northeast
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_133" title="133" />
        Ohio business interests in the 1960s. Steinbrenner vowed to stay in the background, empowering both Rosen
        <i>and</i>
        Billy Martin.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“We’ve built a strong organization here,” Steinbrenner pledged. “And it will now be in their hands, not mine.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees kept dropping. A bunch of players were banged up—Thurman Munson, Willie Randolph, Bucky Dent. Goose Gossage got off to a dreadful start.</p>
      <p class="indent">And the Sox just wouldn’t lose.</p>
      <p class="indent">By the time June melted into July, George Steinbrenner turned back into George Steinbrenner. One day, Rosen called Steinbrenner at his horse farm in Ocala, Florida, to brief him on the status of the team.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner told him, “It’s your problem. I’m staying out of it. It’s peaceful down here, and the horses don’t talk back.”</p>
      <p class="indent">A day later he was at Fenway Park, sitting next to Rosen, frowning as he watched the Red Sox pummel his team. “They keep spitting the bit,” he said, a horse racing term he would convert to baseball the rest of his days.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then he did a drive-by on almost everyone else: “Only two guys, Nettles and Chambliss, are playing up to what’s expected of them,” he said.</p>
      <p class="indent">One of the boss’s targets heard that one loud and clear.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Screw my boss,” Jackson said. “I don’t ridicule him if he fucks up a business deal, why would he ridicule me? If he doesn’t think I’m doing the job, let him get someone else. John Doe didn’t pay me three million dollars, George did.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        It was starting again, the same vicious cycle. Rosen announced flatly: “Billy’s situation is tenuous,” but, as always, Steinbrenner feared a mass reprisal from Yankees fans. He told Martin his job was safe at least until the All-Star Game, which he would manage for the second straight year. The Sox kept pulling away. In mid-July, Steinbrenner made Martin a deal: Retire, and we’ll honor your contract. You can stay with the organization, be an ambassador. You’ll never have to worry about money; you’ll have a job for life. Steinbrenner really was beginning to worry that
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_134" title="134" />
        Martin—skinnier than usual, his face pale and gaunt—was at risk of a serious health issue.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“No way, George,” he said. “My mother didn’t raise no quitter.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner accepted Martin’s rebuke. He also had three demands:</p>
      <ul class="bullist">
        <li class="bull">Make Reggie Jackson (hitting .222 since mid-May) a full-time DH until he got his swing right.</li>
        <li class="bull">Make Thurman Munson the new right fielder, until Munson’s chronically sore knees were right.</li>
        <li class="bull">Replace Munson with rookie catcher Mike Heath, who would go on to a fine fourteen-year career with five different clubs but who, to that moment, had played exactly five games and taken thirteen at bats as a big leaguer.</li>
      </ul>
      <p class="indent">Martin, by now, knew the difference between a request and an order. He made the switch. Nobody was happy, and at the top of the list was Jackson, who only 269 days earlier had been the undisputed king of New York.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Did that really happen?” he asked one day, wearily. “Did I dream that?”</p>
      <p class="indent">For the first time, Jackson felt it wasn’t just his manager who was trying to make him look bad. Now it was the owner, too, eager to criticize him but less willing to confront him, ducking his phone calls every day.</p>
      <p class="indent">All of these things were pinballing inside him when he stepped to the plate in the bottom of the tenth on July 17, the Yankees knotted in a 5–5 tie with the Royals, desperate to avoid a series sweep and a ninth loss in eleven games. Thurman Munson led off with a single against Al Hrabosky. The crowd stirred; these were the moments Jackson was born to seize.</p>
      <p class="indent">Out of habit, Jackson looked down at third base coach Dick Howser, and he thought he might be hallucinating: Howser flashed the bunt signal.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Immediately, Jackson recalled the previous September, when Martin
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_135" title="135" />
        twice gave him the sign, then taken it off, which allowed Jackson to clobber a game-winning homer off Boston’s Reggie Cleveland. He figured that purged the notion of Jackson as a small-ball specialist for good. He was wrong.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Hrabosky threw a pitch high and tight. Ball one.</p>
      <p class="indent">Like the previous year, Martin now wanted to take the bunt off. But Jackson never looked at Howser. Howser called time and walked toward him.</p>
      <p class="indent">“The guy wants you to swing the bat,” Howser said.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m going to bunt,” Jackson replied.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Reggie, Billy wants you to swing away.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Jackson retreated to the plate. On the first pitch he offered, missed and ignored Howser again. Next pitch he fouled off. Again: no look toward Howser. In the dugout, you could have fried an egg on Martin’s forehead. He frantically signaled to Howser. Howser relayed the signal to the side of Jackson’s head. Jackson bunted again. This time he popped the ball up, and the catcher, Darrell Porter, caught it. Jackson stepped briskly off the field, other side of the dugout, and laid his glasses on the bench; he figured Martin might really take a swing at him this time. Martin sent coach Gene Michael to inform Jackson he was being removed from the game. The Yankees lost, 9–7; Cliff Johnson, hitting in Jackson’s spot in the bottom of the eleventh, flied out to the warning track representing the tying run.</p>
      <p class="indent">The aftermath was swift. Martin told Rosen and Steinbrenner he wanted to suspend Jackson.</p>
      <p class="indent">“For how long?” Rosen asked.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Forever,” Martin replied.</p>
      <p class="indent">They settled on five days.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I can’t win,” Jackson said as he hustled off to a plane bound for California, where he’d spend his exile. “No matter what I do, I come off like a big, greedy moneymaker against a poor little streetfighter.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner’s worst nightmares were all being realized. His team was in shambles. His franchise player was in what appeared to be a permanent stalemate with a hugely popular manager. Five years earlier he’d enjoyed
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_136" title="136" />
        himself mightily when the
        <i>Post</i>
        ran a mail-in poll asking who was to blame for the ’73 Mets’ troubles; now the
        <i>Post</i>
        did the same thing with the Yankees, only this time as a phone poll, asking readers who should go, Martin or Jackson—a landslide for Martin, who carried 60 percent of the vote.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">He figured it couldn’t get any worse.</p>
      <p class="indent">And then, right around eight o’clock on the evening of July 23, his phone rang. He picked up. It was Henry Hecht.</p>
      <p class="indent">“George,” he said, “you’re not going to believe what Billy said.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">The boss was</span>
        so angry, he shook as he spoke and his voice quivered.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“It’s hard to believe he said those things,” George Steinbrenner said, before adding to Hecht: “My only question is, ‘Was he drinking?’”</p>
      <p class="indent">Hecht told him Martin had five or six over the course of a few hours but was fully coherent when he’d called him convicted, called Jackson a liar.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Now, there was no debate. Billy Martin had dredged up the one thing Steinbrenner tried mightily to keep locked in his attic, and it was there, in black and white, for close to two million readers to see, with a few million to follow once the other papers and the wire services picked it up. Martin had to go. Even people who loathed their bosses would have to understand:
        <i>You can’t push it</i>
        this
        <i>far.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner knew something else, too.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The Yankees had played six home games since Rosen had declared Martin’s situation tenuous. There’d been 157,601 people at those games. And every one—every one—had stood on their feet when Martin brought the lineup card to the umpires. Every time, Billy Martin, man of the people, doffed his hat, waved, milked the moment. Steinbrenner could already see the
        <i>Post</i>
        running another of its infernal polls, this time him versus Martin.
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          And, sure enough, the
          <i>Post</i>
          did just that, and to no one’s surprise Martin received a 99-percent approval rating from the paper’s readers. The sports editor, Jerry Lisker, demanded a recount. And he was right; that number was off. “It’s more like 99.3,” he was told.
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_137" title="137" />
        Rosen was sent to Kansas City to encourage Martin to resign instead of being fired for a fourth time in nine years.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“In view of the past twenty-four hours, it was inevitable,” Rosen said. “As president of the Yankees, I could not allow a man to make the statements that were made.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Not long after, Martin appeared on the balcony of the Crown Center Hotel—a few steps away from where he’d alerted Steinbrenner that he was benching Reggie Jackson from Game 5 of the ALCS the previous year. Reporters cornered him.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I don’t want to hurt this team’s chances for the pennant with this undue publicity,” Martin said. “The team has a shot at the pennant, and I hope they win it. I owe it to my health and my mental well-being to resign. At the same time I’m sorry about these things that were written about George Steinbrenner. He does not deserve them nor”—he paused here, staring daggers at Chass and Hecht, to whom he was brazenly lying—“did I say them.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin’s voice began to break, his tears hidden only by a dark pair of eyeglasses.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I would like to thank the Yankee management, the press, the news media, my coaches, my players, and most of all . . .”</p>
      <p class="indent">Now he was weeping.</p>
      <p class="indent">“The fans . . .”</p>
      <p class="indent">He was led away from the scrum by a Kansas City friend, Bob Brown, and by his old Yankees teammate Phil Rizzuto, now a Yankees broadcaster, who wrapped an arm around his broken friend.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I thought the bottom of the world had dropped out watching him make that statement and break down,” Rizzuto said later. “I was really afraid he was going to have a heart attack. The Yankees were his whole life.”</p>
      <p class="indent">It was a sad—borderline pathetic—scene.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        And yet, twelve hundred miles away, watching all of this unfold in his Tampa office, George Steinbrenner somehow didn’t see a shattered man but instead one seeking some manner of peace. Maybe he was just seeing what he wanted to see. Nevertheless, once Martin was out, once Bob Lemon (a
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_138" title="138" />
        Hall of Fame pitcher and former Rosen teammate in Cleveland) was chosen to replace him, Steinbrenner softened, his anger dissolved.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“We have never worked better together than we have the last three weeks,” Steinbrenner said. “The Chicago thing, I was shocked. You could have knocked me over.</p>
      <p class="indent">“His apologies over the recent incident are accepted with no further comment necessary. I think Billy knows of our concern for the well-being of his family and himself.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner had another idea gurgling in his imagination, one that was so absurd that nobody could possibly see it coming.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">And once it</span>
        happened, it was still hard to believe.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But there Billy Martin was, trotting onto the field, a smile as wide as the Grand Concourse, 46,711 fans aiming with great intent to crack Yankee Stadium’s fifty-five-year-old foundation with their voices and their stomping feet. Bob Sheppard, in his twenty-eighth year as the Yankees’ voice-of-God public address announcer, had just made a staggering pronouncement near the end of the Yankees’ Old-Timers’ Day ceremonies.</p>
      <p class="indent">“The Yankees agreed to a contract today that Bob Lemon continue managing the Yankees through the 1978 and 1979 seasons . . .”</p>
      <p class="indent">The booing was boisterous, same as it had been when Lemon was introduced a few minutes earlier as part of the roster of Old-Timer invitees; when Rosen was introduced it was even louder and more vicious because he was essentially serving as George Steinbrenner’s surrogate, so he received all of the reflected venom.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Your attention to the rest of the announcement,” Sheppard insisted. “In 1980, Bob Lemon will become the general manager of the Yankees. . . .”</p>
      <p class="indent">The booing intensified.</p>
      <p class="indent">“And the Yankees would like to announce . . . that the manager for the 1980 Yankees and hopefully for many years after that will be number one, Billy Martin. . . .”</p>
      <p class="indent">Suddenly it was a Led Zeppelin show at Yankee Stadium.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Back in the Yankees’ clubhouse, the mood was a bit different. That’s
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_139" title="139" />
        where Reggie Jackson was sitting when he heard thunder bleed through the walls, as he watched it all unfold on a small black-and-white TV. In that moment, Jackson later said, he had the distinct feeling that the entirety of New York City was flipping him the finger.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m bewildered by this,” he said, and figured it was now “fifty-fifty I’ll finish the season somewhere else.” He did manage a thin smile.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’ll have to ask my parents if I was born a liar,” he said.</p>
      <p class="indent">Martin and Steinbrenner appeared at a joint press conference, and Martin looked ten years younger than he’d seemed just five days earlier.</p>
      <p class="indent">“When I quit the other day, I called George and told him how I apologized for what I said. I did say it. I don’t know why I said it. I was angered at the time. I had no reason to say it, and I feel very bad about it, and I am not afraid to admit as much. The challenge is there for me. I’m going to do whatever I can for George. He deserves it.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Said Steinbrenner: “I am undoubtedly going to get ripped a little for being soft, maybe, or being stupid. But there are times in life when you should be tough and times when you have to be rigid and times you have to understand and have compassion.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        (Lemon and Rosen agreed if Steinbrenner had
        <i>really</i>
        wanted to be compassionate he could’ve maybe made the announcement
        <i>before</i>
        they’d both almost been publicly executed by 46,711 people.)
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner beamed through the entire briefing. He had his man back. He’d thrown one of the largest olive branches ever at his fans. He’d have to repair his relationship with Jackson, because there wasn’t a chance in the world he was trading his meal ticket, but he believed he could do that.</p>
      <p class="indent">And hell: If his team could get a few breaks they might scare the Red Sox yet. . . .</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">George Steinbrenner hated</span>
        the idea. He wanted Billy Martin Bubble Wrapped until 1980, wanted him to go off to the sticks of Colorado, fish to his heart’s content, heal his liver, gain some weight, disappear for a while. But Martin had been coming to games, sitting in Steinbrenner’s
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_140" title="140" />
        box. The writers were bugging Mickey Morabito, Steinbrenner’s PR chief, about getting some time with him before he went into witness protection. Morabito kept pitching Steinbrenner directly, knowing Rosen would sooner keep Martin locked in a basement than allow him to chat with the scribes. Steinbrenner relented.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">With a caveat.</p>
      <p class="indent">“If anything goes wrong,” he told Morabito, “it’s your ass.”</p>
      <p class="indent">It was a handful of reporters that arrived at a small Italian restaurant not far from the stadium on the afternoon of August 9. They found Martin cheerful and bronzed and spry, already polishing off his first Miller Lite. Lunch was served: spaghetti, sausages, ravioli, steak pizzaiola. But those were mere appetizers once Martin started talking.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I probably made the comment about George,” he said. “I don’t know why, I say a lot of things just to be cute. But I was mad at the other guy. He set me off. He won’t admit he made a mistake, denies he deliberately disobeyed an order.”</p>
      <p class="indent">That was batting practice.</p>
      <p class="indent">“When Reggie got his money I read the comments, ‘I got no problem, George and I are eye-to-eye on everything.’ But he forgot one man. Billy Martin.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The writers looked at Morabito, whose face was ashen.</p>
      <p class="indent">“If Reggie is here in 1980, he can expect to be treated like one of twenty-five players. If he abuses the privilege, he’ll have his hand spanked again. I never looked at him like he was a superstar because he never showed he was a superstar. I never put him above Chris Chambliss, Thurman Munson, Willie Randolph, Mickey Rivers, Roy White or Lou Piniella. At times I put Fred Stanley [a lifetime .216 hitter with ten home runs in a fourteen-year career] higher than him. . . .”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Morabito, on the verge of passing out, quickly ended lunch, hustled Martin back to his Lincoln Continental Diamond Jubilee Mark V with the New York license plate
        <span class="smallcaps">yankees</span>
        on the front, then headed back to the office. He knocked on Steinbrenner’s door.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“How’d it go?” he asked.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_141" title="141" />
        “Not good,” Morabito said. He debriefed him. And wondered if he should duck.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“If this Reggie shit hits the papers tomorrow,” Steinbrenner said, “you’re fired.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Morabito knew he was a goner. Except just past midnight, after the Yankees had rallied for five runs in the bottom of the ninth to stun the Brewers, 8–7, one of the writers called Morabito in his office.</p>
      <p class="indent">“See you when I see you,” the writer said. “We just went on strike.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        There would be no
        <i>Times</i>
        , no
        <i>Post</i>
        , no
        <i>Daily News</i>
        the next morning to deliver Morabito’s head to Steinbrenner. The Jersey papers, the other suburban papers (even
        <i>Newsday</i>
        , which didn’t belong to the city guild) would have every word, but this was 1978: Martin could’ve called Steinbrenner a serial killer and he wouldn’t have cared as long as those words were limited to the boondocks. The
        <i>city</i>
        papers were what mattered. And, miracle of miracles, now there
        <i>were</i>
        no city papers.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Mickey Morabito was spared.</p>
      <p class="indent">So were the Yankees, remarkably enough.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">From August 10</span>
        on, the Yankees went 37–13. They chased the Red Sox, caught them one memorable weekend in early September in Fenway Park, and watched the Sox win their final eight games, setting up a one-shot playoff on Monday, October 2, at Fenway. The Yankees won that, 5–4, thanks in large measure to one of the most famous home runs in Yankees history, a seventh-inning blast by Bucky Dent that turned a 2–0 deficit into a 3–2 lead.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        The whole thing happened in blissful quiet: no newspapers, no back-page bloodlettings. Oh, Reggie piped up once, after Martin’s remarks got back to him. He still hadn’t gotten much satisfaction from Steinbrenner. The fans at Yankee Stadium routinely booed him. In Game 2 of the World Series in Los Angeles, the Yankees trailing by a run with two outs and men on first and second, Jackson battled Dodgers rookie Bob Welch for nine pitches. On 3-and-2, with the runners in motion (as runners automatically do when there’s a full count and two outs), Jackson swung through a Welch
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_142" title="142" />
        heater and raged angrily in the box, approaching third base coach Howser with what looked like malicious intent before Bob Lemon interceded. Jackson wheeled and shoved the fifty-eight-year-old Lemon, screamed at him for starting the runners, which he called “distracting”; Lemon shoved him back, screamed, “Base runners have been running on full counts since the time of Abner Fuckin’ Doubleday!”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Of course, with a certain other manager, this would have been like shooting Archduke Franz Ferdinand, a prelude to war. Lemon just shrugged it off. “That ain’t no fight,” he said. “I’ve had worse fights with my wife.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The Yankees rallied back to win the World Series after spotting the Dodgers the first two games. Jackson hit .391 and had two more homers, but it was Dent, enjoying the month of his life, who won the series MVP, hitting .417.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Lemon was the center of another intramural tangle when word escaped that a bloc of Yankees players wanted to vote him only half a playoff share. Cooler heads prevailed in that one, and Lemon was voted his full share of more than $31,000 once the Yankees finished off the Dodgers. Back home, it was Reggie Jackson (who’d further solidified his status as “Mr. October”) who got the last word—literally—when he took to the microphone at city hall after the Yankees’ second straight tour up the Canyon of Heroes. Steinbrenner, who believed
        <i>he</i>
        should be the prime spokesman, stalked red-faced to the back of the stage, where Al Rosen was sitting.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Sometimes,” he said, “it’s easy to see why Billy was pissed all the time.”</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
