<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Acknowledgments</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="backmatter">
    <section epub:type="acknowledgments" role="doc-acknowledgments" aria-labelledby="ack">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_357" title="357" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="fmbm_head" id="ack">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rack">Acknowledgments</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="noindent">
        I tell this story a lot, only because it was the most important day of my life. This was the summer of 1974, and my father surprised me: He’d told me we were visiting my grandmother in Corona, Queens, and that already meant it was going to be a good day. But he hadn’t revealed the punch line. We were having breakfast with Nanny, but we were really only parking the car at her house. Soon the two of us would be hoofing it to Shea Stadium to watch a Mets–Cardinals game on Old-Timers’ Day. I was seven years old, and I remember every moment as if it all happened fifteen minutes ago: so many sights, so many smells, all of it overwhelming. At one point, my father started pointing out the various ballpark features:
        <i>There’s the bullpen. There’s the tarp. There’s the dugout. There’s the press box. There’s the . . .</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Press box?” I asked. “What’s a press box?”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “You know the stories you read in
        <i>Newsday</i>
        and the
        <i>Long Island Press</i>
        every day about the Mets and Yankees?” he asked. “They’re written by sportswriters. And they write their stories in the press box.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        And, as they say, I was
        <i>gone . . .</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        So in many ways, this book is very much a product of that day—June 29, 1974, Mets 4, Cardinals 0—and the immediate and intense understanding that
        <i>that</i>
        was precisely what I was going to do with my life. Since 1989, I’ve had the great good fortune to earn a living writing about all sports, but baseball has always been the foundation. The great Dave Anderson of
        <i>The New York Times</i>
        once told me, “If you can write baseball well, everything else is just warm-up.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        I am a hopeless junkie of both history and of baseball, so this project was a delight in almost every way, mostly because of the unique way the reporting and research was done. I’ve written three books in the past, and many of those were heavily dependent on long hours spent in musty microfilm rooms. Some of that was the case for this book, of course, since I didn’t
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_358" title="358" />
        start to cover baseball until the 1990s. So it is important to give thanks here for the extraordinary work so many New York baseball writers did in the 1970s and 1980s, at a time when newspapers were the undisputed kings of news gathering, in an era when daily back-page battles often drew blood, not all of it figuratively. For that I am grateful to generations of writers at the following newspapers: the
        <i>New York Post</i>
        ; New York
        <i>Daily News</i>
        ;
        <i>The New York Times</i>
        ;
        <i>Newsday</i>
        ; the Newark
        <i>Star-Ledger</i>
        ; the Bergen County, New Jersey,
        <i>Record</i>
        ; and the Westchester, New York,
        <i>Journal-News</i>
        . For much of the text of the book for the years before 1995, when I started covering New York baseball myself, I relied on the work of those who came before and worked for those newspapers. A lot of the quotes they gathered in real time are in this book; in many other instances they were the root for a surplus of questions I’d ask sources in the fleshing out of the narrative. Almost all of what is contained here after 1996 is a product of my own reporting.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">What made this book unique for me was the fact that for much of the last thirty years I’ve had a front-row seat to just about every act of the daily drama/thriller/comedy known as the Steinbrenner Yankees. I’ve gotten to know professionally so many of the people featured and quoted in this story, and it was their frank (and often on-background) recollections that helped provide much of the tone of the story. I’m indebted to all of them for serving as the lifeblood of so many of my newspaper columns over the last three decades, and for allowing me to write this book the way I wanted to write it. I’m also grateful to both Jason Zillo of the Yankees as well as Hal Steinbrenner, who was especially generous with his time. Henry Hecht, who lived through so many of the tabloid wars of the 1970s and 1980s, was an invaluable sounding board as were, through the years, my late colleagues Vic Ziegel, Maury Allen and Dave Anderson.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        This is not a biography; if you want the best and most complete version of the life of George Steinbrenner I recommend
        <i>Steinbrenner: The Last Lion of Baseball</i>
        (Harper, 2010), written by Bill Madden, a member of the writer’s wing of the Baseball Hall of Fame. Other books that helped serve as guideposts for this one include
        <i>Billy Martin: Baseball’s Flawed Genius</i>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_359" title="359" />
        (HarperCollins, 2016) by Bill Pennington;
        <i>All Roads Lead to October: Boss Steinbrenner’s 25-Year Reign Over the New York Yankees</i>
        (St. Martin’s Press, 1998) by Maury Allen;
        <i>Now Pitching for the Yankees: Spinning the News for Mickey, Billy and George</i>
        (Total Sports, 2001) by Marty Appel; and
        <i>Pinstripe Empire: The New York Yankees from Before the Babe to After the Boss</i>
        (Bloomsbury, 2014), also by Appel. In addition, a terrific book by longtime Cleveland
        <i>Plain-Dealer</i>
        sports columnist Bill Livingston,
        <i>George Steinbrenner’s Pipe Dreams: The ABL Champion Cleveland Pipers</i>
        (Kent State University Press, 2015), is a wonderful look at the Boss’s short-lived but unforgettable ownership of the Cleveland Pipers of the American Basketball League, where he developed so many of the tics and the traits he’d display a decade later once he moved to New York.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">I’m indebted to my literary agent, Joe Perry, a fellow acolyte (um, make that alum) of St. Bonaventure University who reached out one day, wondering if I’d like to resume writing books after a thirteen-year sabbatical. He was a good sport as I weeded through some less-than-inspired ideas and then was an all-in advocate once we determined what the best possible project was. I’ll forever be grateful for that jump-start.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        It is Sean Desmond at Harper, however, whose fingerprints are all over these pages. I’ve been blessed in my career to work with a number of gifted and talented editors but Sean exists by himself, in his own category. Not only was he the originator of the idea of writing about the Steinbrenner family and their legacy, he was the one who suggested I write these thirty chapters “like thirty of your newspaper columns.” No coach has ever given a more meaningful pregame speech. And as we advanced deeper and deeper into the manuscript it was clear that we were reading the pages through similar eyes—his were just a bit sharper sometimes, more focused, and so much of his input is apparent throughout. It is a rare gift to work with an editor you trust implicitly, and I look forward to this being the start of a long and prosperous partnership. I would also like to express my appreciation for Harper assistant Jackie Quaranto, whose gentle guiding hand is all over this book, and for Erica Ferguson, who was charged with the unenviable (but essential) task of fact-checking and copyediting the text,
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_360" title="360" />
        and performed that task as expertly as Don Mattingly, circa 1985. Thanks also to Beth Silfin, Harper’s vice president, deputy general counsel (and a fervent Yankees fan), who lent the manuscript one final, thorough and critical set of eyes.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        As fortunate a life as it is to write books, it almost seems like an excess of riches that I also have a day job that I treasure. Chris Shaw has my back every day that I write a column for the
        <i>New York Post</i>
        , and that occasionally means having to wade into difficult and uncomfortable waters together. I have worked for two sports editors in twenty-three years at the
        <i>Post</i>
        , and while it was Greg Gallo who hired me and opened the door to the only career I’ve ever dreamed of—a debt I’ll never be able to come close to repaying—Shaw has helped make those dreams a daily reality. Together with Mark Hale, Dave Blezow and Josh Egerman they run the best sports section in America, and our bosses at the paper—publisher Sean Giancola, editor in chief Keith Poole and editor in chief/print Steve Lynch—encourage us to remind everyone in New York City that even now, a feisty sports section can still kick a little ass every day.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Every day I appear in that newspaper is a joy, and honors the memory of my father, Mickey, who took me to that game in 1974, encouraged my dreams from the start and helped foster them by bringing the
        <i>Post</i>
        home with him every day. It is my humble honor to work alongside a top-flight team of baseball writers at the
        <i>Post</i>
        : Joel Sherman, Jon Heyman, Mike Puma, Greg Joyce, Dan Martin, Mark W. Sanchez and Peter Botte. The daily encouragements of Larry Rocca, Don Burke, Drew Loftis, Ted Holmlund, Harrison Goodman and Justin Terranova all bring me to a better place with my words and my work.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        I’ve been so fortunate to surround myself with dear friends in the newspaper/media business who every day help me to look a little bit smarter than I really am. Chief among them are Les Carpenter, Brian Costello, Jack Curry, Bob Klapisch, Dave Lennon, Tom Missel, Ian O’Connor, Steve Politi, Joe Posnanski, Bob Ryan and Adrian Wojnarowski. I would also like to mention a hero who became a mentor who became a friend, the late John Feinstein, who crafted the blueprint
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_361" title="361" />
        for all of us who write books anchored in the world of sports. Ours is a proud fraternity/sorority, even if it seems to shrink in numbers by the day, but for now and forever I wish to salute the folks who are not only my friends but continue to make this such an honorable vocation, notably: Laura Albanese, Dominic Amore, Marty Appel, Harvey Araton, Stef Bondy, Tim Bontemps, Zach Braziller, Larry Brooks, Pete Caldera, Mark Cannizzaro, Rich Chere, Ken Davidoff, Ryan Duleavy, Mike Fannin, Pat Forde, Kevin Gleason, Dan Graziano, Vahe Gregorian, Jerry Izenberg, Tyler Kepner, George King, Kevin Manahan, Dinn Mann, Andrew Marchand, Jeff Passan, Chuck Pollock, Steve Popper, Ed Price, T. J. Quinn, Lenn Robbins, Michael Rosenberg, Paul Schwartz, Jaret Schwartz, Steve Serby, Michael S. Schmidt, Dan Shaughnessy, Ben Shpigel, Mike Sielski, Tara Sullivan, Barry Svrgula, Wright Thompson, Dave Waldstein, Mollie Walker, Charlie Wenzelberg, Dan Wetzel and Steve Wright—and, always, the late Anthony Causi. My thanks also to Alex Mead of the
        <i>New York Post</i>
        , who helped furnish the archival photographs in this book.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        And it isn’t just newspaper folks who help a guy out with a project like this, so I am eager to also recognize Charlie and Loraine Albanese; Peter Barrecchia; Marc and Linda Berman; D. J., Kevin and Brian Bisaccio; Brian Burns; Eddie Burns; Amy Carr Wojnarowski; Chris and Gioia Cassidy; Aaron and Bethanne Chimbel; Pauline Coppola; John and Christie Coyle; Pamela Curry; Nick and Caren Cusano; Brendan, Greg, Mike and Rich Daniels; Ariste and John Egan, Esquire; the late Dr. George Evans; John Finnin; Bill and Donna Going; John and Natalie Hammersley; Patty Hogan; Audrey Hursey; Gavin Hursey; Kris Hursey; Paul and Lori Hursey; Chris and Kari Johnston; Dick and Mo Kearns; Matt Kramer; Brother Robert Lahey; Sean Lapham; Chris LaPlaca; John and Susanne Lovisolo; Scott and Laura Lowy; Mike and Maura MacDonald; Scott and Michelle Mackenzie; the late Dr. Jim Martine; Doug and Meghan Mauch; Tom and Amy McKenna; Gloria McMahon; Neil and Allicia McMahon; Tim and Daura McMahon; Geri Mulea; Todd and Dena Nordt; Mary Beth O’Donnell; Tom Pecora; Linda Penn; Rob and Michaela Ricco;
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_362" title="362" />
        Father Dan Riley (RIP); Melanie Rolli and Hayo Hummerjohann; Jeanine and Josh Rotolo; Paul and Katie Sabini; Kevin and Marie St. Pierre; Mike St. Pierre; Brian Sanger; Gary Schreier; Charlie and Jane Silecchia; Dr. Richard Simpson; Teresa and Michael Specht; Don and Donna Thompson; Jane Thompson; Stephen and Diana Vaccaro; Dave and Anne Viganola; Glen, Joe, Neil, Peter and Tim Villari; and Cynthia and Tom White.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">I would be remiss without offering a profound appreciation for an unparalleled team of physicians and therapists who, through their collective talents and patience, allowed me to continue to pursue this professional life I’ve cherished for so long: Gianna Bracco; Jacqueline Corcoran; Dr. Carol D’Aquino; Dr. Richard Goldstein; Dr. Anthony Lee; Cynthia Macaluso; Shane Matta; Dr. Mitul Patel; Joe Reda; Marybeth Ryan; and Dr. Marcus Williams.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        This is the first book I’ve written since the passing of my mother, Ann (1934–2019), who was a constant source of strength, faith and optimism, a glass-half-full soul in a glass-half-empty world. The pride in her eyes when I presented my three previous books to her—“I’m going to
        <i>buy</i>
        them,” she insisted, and I always let her—is the lone source of sadness associated with this project, since I won’t have that moment this time. But she’ll know. I know she’ll know.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Then there is Leigh Hursey Vaccaro, who found herself exploring the “for better or worse” and also the “in sickness and in health” portions of our vows a little more literally than she probably intended to these past few years. To say she was both the inspiration and conscience behind this book may be accurate, but also represents only about 1 percent of what she’s meant to me these last few decades. I hope the good folks at Harper will understand that as proud as I am of this book, it will only be the second-greatest part of 2025 for me. In August we’ll be married thirty years. I’m glad I took the over.</p>
      <p class="indent2">
        <b>Mike Vaccaro</b>
      </p>
      <p class="indentz">Hillsdale, New Jersey</p>
      <p class="indent3">May 2025</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
