<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 25</title>
    <link href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch25">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_294" title="294" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch25">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch25">Chapter 25</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>Everybody on the Yankees has played so well, George Steinbrenner doesn’t know who to fire.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—David Letterman</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">T</span>
        hey came after him with money, figuring he was an easy mark. It wasn’t a ridiculous play. By 1998, George Steinbrenner was sixty-eight years old. Twenty-five years earlier, he’d invested $168,000 of his own money as part of the $8.8 million that took the Yankees off CBS’s hands. Now the men in the limousines were offering him more than half a billion dollars for his share. He’d won four championships but, more: He’d
        <i>won</i>
        ; the men in the limos were eager to ensure he’d earn a 342,162 percent return on his initial investment.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Winning?</p>
      <p class="indent">They’d be talking about him in business schools for eternity.</p>
      <p class="indent">“George,” Charles Dolan said at their first meeting, “you’re a giant.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Dolan was himself a self-made business behemoth, also a product of Northeast Ohio, just like Steinbrenner. He dropped out of John Carroll University and founded a company in his mid-twenties that focused on the packaging, marketing and distribution of sports and industrial films. At twenty-five, he sold his business to a Cleveland company called Teleguide in exchange for a full-time job with benefits, and a year later moved to New York to seek his fortune. He found it in cable television. In 1972
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_295" title="295" />
        he created Home Box Office (HBO), quickly built that into an unlikely powerhouse featuring live sports and first-run uncut movies. After selling HBO to Time-Life he focused on his other company, Cablevision, which dominated the cable-TV market on Long Island. It made him a billionaire. And when he further expanded his empire by purchasing Madison Square Garden in 1999, he at once became the dominant sports executive in New York with the Rangers, Knicks and a money-printing sports television network whose flagship programming was Yankees games.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Chuck Dolan is a Clevelander,” Steinbrenner said, “and an idol of mine.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Now Dolan wanted the Yankees.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner was eager to listen. Half a billion dollars is half a billion dollars, after all. But there was something no amount of money could buy. Soon enough, Steinbrenner recognized that.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “They tried to tell my dad they could work it out where he’d still be in charge of the Yankees, they’d pay him a seven-figure salary and he’d allegedly call the shots,” Hal Steinbrenner said. “But look who they were talking to. My father knew better than anybody you couldn’t be
        <i>appointed</i>
        the boss. You had to
        <i>be</i>
        the boss. If you had to look at a corporate directory to determine who the boss was, then that’s not really a boss.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Someone should have told Dolan. Someone should’ve warned him he’d never get his hands on the Yankees as long as Steinbrenner had a say. Nothing personal, of course.
        <i>Nobody</i>
        would.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Not even his idol.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">The boss would</span>
        still rage behind closed doors. He would still vent his anger at secretaries, at office staff, at his so-called “baseball people,” at his PR guardians, at Brian Cashman. Occasionally he would pick up the paper and see the Yankees had lost six out of nine, something like that, and he’d dial the telephone and gently prod Joe Torre, but before he could even think about igniting his blowtorch Torre would calm him.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Slowly, imperceptibly, George Steinbrenner began to fade from the back pages. Oh, he’d wake up on the wrong side of the bed some days and
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_296" title="296" />
        call Bill Madden of the
        <i>Daily News</i>
        or Joel Sherman of the
        <i>Post</i>
        or Jack Curry of the
        <i>Times</i>
        or Jon Heyman of
        <i>Newsday</i>
        , and there would be a brief string of throwback “woods,” which is what the headlines on both the front and back pages are called in tabloid vernacular.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span class="smallcaps">BOSS UNHAPPY WITH KNOBBY</span>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span class="smallcaps">BOSS WANTS TO SEE FIRE IN YANK BELLIES</span>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span class="smallcaps">BOSS: THE METS ARE SECOND-RATE</span>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But as 1998 bled into 1999, which gave way to 2000, which ceded to 2001, more often when Steinbrenner had something to say he’d filter it through his outside PR man, Howard Rubenstein. Plus there was very little for the Boss to be mad about. Once the Yankees broke the three million attendance barrier in 1999 they’ve never drawn less, with the exception of the COVID-19-affected seasons of 2020 and 2021. Within a few years of turning Dolan away the Yankees’ value doubled, meaning Steinbrenner was now sitting on a billion-dollar asset, and once the Yankees’ TV deal with MSG expired after the 2001 season he and his advisers put together plans for their own TV network.</p>
      <p class="indent">To fill programming hours, Steinbrenner entered into an agreement with the owners of New Jersey’s Nets of the NBA and Devils of the NHL, dubbed the partnership YankeeNets, and whether it was coincidence or not the Devils won Stanley Cups in 2000 and 2003 and the previously woebegone Nets made back-to-back appearances in the NBA Finals in 2002 and 2003. He was printing money.</p>
      <p class="indent">For a time, Lou Lamoriello, architect of the Devils, became Steinbrenner’s most trusted adviser, a right-hand man supervising both the Nets and the Devils and offering opinions when asked about the Yankees.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Mr. Steinbrenner was easy to work with,” Lamoriello said a few years later. “We won, and won a lot, and so there wasn’t a lot he could find fault with.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        It was the same with his baseball team, which had not only completed the sport’s first three-peat in twenty-six years by adding the 1999 and 2000 World Series to 1998 but also did so with style and grace and panache.
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_297" title="297" />
        He’d always been partial to stars, and now he had a boatload: future Hall of Famers Derek Jeter and Mariano Rivera; borderline Hall of Famers Paul O’Neill, Bernie Williams, Andy Pettitte and Jorge Posada; Roger Clemens, who would’ve surely been a Hall of Famer had he not gotten caught in the steroid dragnet of the mid-2000s. Best of all: They all performed. In October. Under the brightest lights. Year after year after year.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Yankees games now became a gathering spot for the bold-faced names who regularly filled Page Six and
        <i>US Weekly</i>
        magazine and TMZ.
      </p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          One particularly crazed day was the morning of August 12, 1998. Steinbrenner granted Spike Lee one day to film a scene of his movie
          <i>Summer of Sam</i>
          at Yankee Stadium, so Lee had directed Reggie Jackson—playing a version of himself twenty-one years younger, stuffed into his old number 44 uniform—on a steamy morning in right field. When they returned to the clubhouse both men were mobbed by reporters; I was the only one who noticed another clubhouse stranger wearing blue jeans, brown work boots and a painter’s cap. He had his eight-year-old son with him. I was working at the Newark
          <i>Star-Ledger</i>
          at the time, and spotting Bruce Springsteen was the equivalent of the columnist of the
          <i>Vatican City Times</i>
          noticing the pope. He was there to swap guitars with Bernie Williams. He pointed at Jackson and told his son, “See that man? He used to be the best home run hitter in the world.” To which Evan Springsteen replied, “The bald guy?”
        </p>
        <p class="extiz">
          The column the next day was headlined:
          <span class="smallcaps">THE BOSS—NO, NOT GEORGE—HAS YANKEES ROCKIN</span>
          ’.
        </p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Steinbrenner would quickly</span>
        tire of his alliances with the Nets and Devils. Signs were evident early when he grumbled his new partners with the Nets, Lewis Katz and Raymond Chambers, seemed a bit too concerned with the philanthropic aspect of the job as opposed to winning as many games as possible. One day, David Cone was told the Nets’ ownership philosophy broke down this way, and in order:
      </p>
      <ol class="numlist">
        <li class="number">
          <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_298" title="298" />
          Charity
        </li>
        <li class="number">Dignity</li>
        <li class="number">Victory</li>
      </ol>
      <p class="indent">Cone laughed at that.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “Charity and dignity,” he said, “don’t get you a recurring character on
        <i>Seinfeld</i>
        .”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The Nets would be sold to New York developer Bruce Ratner, who would move the club from North Jersey to Brooklyn, but the team would still follow Steinbrenner when he announced the formation of the Yankee Entertainment and Sports Network—YES—late in 2001. The Yankees’ twelve-year association with the MSG Network was a boon for both parties, and by the time YES came into existence the two had most of New York’s baseball, basketball and hockey teams carved up; within a few years, the Mets would establish their own regional cable network, SportsNet New York (SNY).</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner’s empire was expanding rapidly. He’d already overseen the construction of a state-of-the-art spring training facility on Dale Mabry Highway in Tampa, and in 1996 he moved all operations from Fort Lauderdale to his adopted home. The network gained momentum even as Dolan, always a sore loser, vowed he’d never allow Cablevision to carry Yankees games. Steinbrenner’s idol was now his rival, and Steinbrenner knew with the Yankees in his pocket he had an unbeatable hand. When the Boss wrote a $30 million check to Dolan to officially end the Yankees’ stay on MSG, Dolan couldn’t yet see he’d been usurped by his erstwhile protégé.</p>
      <p class="indent">“We’ll never put you on the air, George,” he vowed. “Mark my words.”</p>
      <p class="indent">“We’ll see about that, Chuck,” Steinbrenner replied, with a smile. Dolan did manage to keep Yankees games off his system for all of 2002—as he stubbornly watched Cablevision’s stock plummet—but by ’03 he’d wearied of the fight and gave in.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The last order of business in completing the Steinbrenner dynasty was finding a new home for his baseball team. For all the threats he’d posited
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_299" title="299" />
        through the years New Jersey had never actually come close to passing the kind of public backing such a facility would require. Manhattan’s doors never really opened for him. Yonkers was available . . .
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        “The
        <i>Yonkers Yankees</i>
        ?” Gene Michael laughed in 2016. “Really?”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Whatever concerns lingered about the safety and viability of the South Bronx had vaporized by now. Crime citywide was down under the auspices of the Yankees’ most visible fan, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. Attendance was more robust. Late in his administration, Giuliani announced an agreement between the city, the Yankees and the Mets whereby two new retractable-roof stadiums would be built (though ultimately the roofs would vanish by the final blueprints). For the Mets, their new home would be in the parking lot next to Shea Stadium; for the Yankees it would rise out of Macombs Dam Park, across 161st Street from the stadium. The cost would be $800 million (and would swell to some $1.7 billion before the doors opened; Citi Field’s final number was $930 million), with the city picking up the tab for half, the teams the other half. Giuliani left office in January 2002, but these ballparks, he believed, would be his grandest legacy. That turned out not to be the case because of simple politics and because of something that would have been unimaginable on the day of the announcement.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Steinbrenner would never</span>
        rank his championships. For one, he fully expected to win one every year. There was also an unwillingness to lessen the achievements of any of the teams that came before, or the ones that would come later.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">In the year 2000, he enjoyed his more triumphant hour.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The Yankees and Mets only made the postseason together once in their shared history going back to 1962. In 1999 they’d come achingly close to meeting in what would be the first World Series Subway Series since 1956. The Yankees and Dodgers tangled seven times in the Fall Classic between 1941 and 1956, the Yankees winning six. The Yankees and Giants met six times between 1921 and 1951, the Yankees winning four. In ’99 the Mets lost in six games to the Braves in the National League Championship Series (NLCS), blowing two late-inning leads in Game 6, and it began to feel like
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_300" title="300" />
        the only interborough clashes the city could expect were the two annual interleague series built into the 162-game regular season.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        There was something different about that 2000 season. Both teams were
        <i>good</i>
        , the Mets securing a wild card with ninety-four wins, the Yankees winning another AL East title despite surviving a late-season losing streak that kept their win total at a modest eighty-seven. Together they’d drawn nearly six million fans to their aging ballparks. And on the afternoon and evening of July 8, a whiff of foreshadowing filled both boroughs.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">An earlier rain delay required the teams play a split doubleheader. The afternoon game was at Shea Stadium, and in a remarkable twist Doc Gooden was brought back out of mothballs to make a start in the building for which he’d once all but owned the deed. He pitched well, too: five innings, two runs, credited with a 4–2 win. At night, the action shifted to Yankee Stadium and in the top of the second inning in a scoreless game Roger Clemens threw a 97 mph fastball that hit Mets All-Star catcher Mike Piazza square on the helmet. Piazza had a long history of wearing Clemens out; there wasn’t a soul on either side who believed this was an accident.</p>
      <p class="indent">Well, with one exception.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I don’t blame Mike Piazza for thinking what he wants to think because he’s the one who got hit in the head,” Steinbrenner said. “But if anyone thinks Roger Clemens was trying to hit Mike Piazza in the head, I don’t believe that. He wouldn’t try to hurt anyone.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner hinted the Mets’ emotional and angry reaction to Clemens was a “PR stunt” by the Mets to draw attention away from the fact they’d lost three out of four that weekend (including the Clemens game). It was ex-Yankee Al Leiter who took the lead on the Mets’ rebuttal.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m not trying to undermine George here or anything, but if he thinks our reaction has anything to do with PR he has no idea how angry we were at Roger,” he said. “I don’t know what the organization had to do with teammates standing on the top step of the dugout yelling every cuss word ever invented at Roger after he hit Mike.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Sure enough, the Yankees and Mets both survived to the World Series three and a half months later. As impossible as it was to believe, in Game
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_301" title="301" />
        2 Clemens and Piazza actually had a rematch. Clemens broke Piazza’s bat with a pitch, and the barrel rolled out toward Clemens. He picked it up and instead of discarding it . . .
        <i>he (holy shit!) threw it at Piazza!</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">There were 56,059 inside Yankee Stadium, and for a beat or two nobody knew how to react. In a moment, it became WrestleMania. No punches were exchanged but plenty of hard words were, in addition to 56,059 voices sending boos and catcalls descending on the combatants—most of them, given the venue, landing on Piazza.</p>
      <p class="indent">Again Steinbrenner had Clemens’s back even as the consensus of opinion—even from Yankees fans—opted for words like “off” and “not right” and “’roid rage” to describe what Clemens had done.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I don’t think for one minute that Roger Clemens picks up a bat to throw it at Mike Piazza,” said Steinbrenner, expressing a very lonely opinion. “Emotion played a lot in it, but nothing more.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He was enjoying himself. This was something he’d both dreaded and coveted for years, a chance to beat the Mets on the sport’s grandest stage. After the Yankees’ lone loss, Game 3 at Shea Stadium, he walked restlessly around the sparse visitor’s clubhouse. He heard Mets manager Bobby Valentine say, “I never thought we could make the Yankees feel uncomfortable, that’s an encouraging sign.”</p>
      <p class="indent">So on the spot he made a snap decision: He ordered club officials to fill an eighteen-wheel Ryder truck with furniture from the Yankees’ home clubhouse on the other side of the Triboro Bridge. Off the truck before Game 4 came a pile of comfortable high-backed chairs to replace the hard wooden stools in front of every locker. Off came a large couch. Off came two trainer’s tables.</p>
      <p class="indent">The players all appreciated the gesture. And maybe this was coincidence, but they won Games 4 and 5, wrapping a third straight championship, the twenty-sixth in team history, the sixth on the Boss’s watch, and for the third straight year Steinbrenner wept unabashedly as he accepted the Commissioner’s Trophy from Bud Selig.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Why shouldn’t a man cry when he’s this happy?” the Boss asked.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        A year later, the Yankees would do their part to help heal their city after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. They won a thrilling five-game
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_302" title="302" />
        series with Oakland (highlighted by Jeter’s signature “flip throw”), they crushed the 116-win Seattle Mariners in six and they seized a 3–2 lead on the Arizona Diamondbacks after back-to-back games at Yankee Stadium, where first Tino Martinez and then Scott Brosius rescued them with two-out ninth-inning home runs. The Diamondbacks ransacked Andy Pettitte in Game 6, 15–2, and then did the unthinkable, rallying for two in the bottom of the ninth against Mariano Rivera, who’d become the sport’s most fearsome closer. When Luis Gonzalez dunked a bloop over Derek Jeter’s head, the celebration was so loud, so raucous, it bled into the Yankees’ clubhouse.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Row after row of players sat in sad silence. This was different from the scene inside the Kingdome six years earlier. The core of this team had won multiple championships together, and they’d just missed making it five out of six. They’d bled every ounce of satisfaction they could. They knew that. Steinbrenner probably did, too.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        But he was also less emotional than he’d been at the Kingdome. He distributed fewer hugs. He was legit
        <i>angry</i>
        . He’d watched Game 7 in the Yankees’ clubhouse at Bank One Ballpark, watched as workers prepared the room for a celebration that never came, and was quick to rip MLB for stealing his mojo.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner looked grim. “There’s going to be changes,” he said. Then he went to one of his go-to sources, Ernest Hemingway.</p>
      <p class="indent">“The way to be a good loser is to practice it,” he said. “And I am not going to be practicing.”</p>
      <p class="indent">By the time they boarded the long flight home, most of the men who worked for Steinbrenner were in agreement: It’s much, much better when the old man has himself a good cry.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
