<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="daisy: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta name="identifier" content="book_181032429196" />
    <title>Chapter 15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/9780063414792_template.css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ch15">
      <div>
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_170" title="170" />
      </div>
      <h1 epub:type="title" class="chap_head" id="ch15">
        <a href="9780063414792_Contents.xhtml#rch15">Chapter 15</a>
      </h1>
      <p class="epi_pb">
        <i>Hell, when you’re a shipbuilder nobody pays any attention to you. But when you own the New York Yankees . . . I’m a ham.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="epi_at">—George Steinbrenner</p>
      <p class="noindent2">
        <span class="dropcap">T</span>
        he ham was on his way, and he was pissed. Nobody inside the Yankees’ clubhouse this Saturday evening, October 10, 1981, was especially pleased. They’d had a half dozen opportunities to beat the Milwaukee Brewers, send them home from this first-ever AL East Division Series (ALDS) (necessitated by a two-month strike in the middle of the summer), send the Yankees to the ALCS against their old pal, Billy Martin, whose remarkable Oakland A’s had already secured a place there.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But the Yankees couldn’t get a clutch hit when they needed one.</p>
      <p class="indent">Sure enough, word was, the Man was on his way.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Shut the door!” screamed Reggie Jackson, who knew better than anyone what pearls of wisdom George Steinbrenner was capable of sharing if he wasn’t happy with his baseball team. “And don’t say a word.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Minutes later, in walked Steinbrenner, red-faced and spitting mad. As he blew through reporters in the corridor he carpet-bombed his team, specifically catcher Rick Cerone, who’d taken too far a turn off first base after what should have been a clutch single in the seventh, a misstep that forced Larry Milbourne at third to try to scamper home. He didn’t make it. Then,
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_171" title="171" />
        with two on and two outs in the ninth, Rollie Fingers struck out Cerone. The Yankees lost, 2–1.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“There are guys here who are on trial, and Rick Cerone is one of them,” Steinbrenner fumed. “Stupid baserunning. Now we’ll see who some of these guys are and who deserves to be in the playoffs and if some of the guys here deserve to be Yankees.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Once in front of his team, Steinbrenner revved his engine into overdrive.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “Tomorrow we will find out what kind of men you are,” Steinbrenner said. “Now you’ve got to show
        <i>me</i>
        .”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        Most of the players simply sat with heads bowed, trying like hell not to laugh at Steinbrenner’s latest locker room screed. Manager Bob Lemon (we’ll get to
        <i>that</i>
        shortly) was so mad he worked his way through a cigarette in about three drags.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But Cerone didn’t find any of this even remotely funny. He’d been tasked with the unenviable job of replacing the sainted Thurman Munson, and after the Yankees brought him in from Toronto he’d responded with a terrific year in 1980, hitting .277 with career highs of fourteen homers and eighty-five RBIs. He was durable with movie-star good looks, and he instantly became a fan favorite. Just as quickly, he fell into disfavor with Steinbrenner because he’d taken the Boss to arbitration and won a $450,000 contract, about two hundred grand more than Munson had ever made in a year. He also broke his thumb in spring training ’81, costing himself a month, but Cerone, a tough kid from Newark, came back two weeks early as much to spite Steinbrenner as anything else.</p>
      <p class="indent">Still, Steinbrenner remained livid Cerone fought him over his salary, and took a measure of odd delight that Cerone scuffled through a difficult 1981 season. A few weeks before the playoffs began Steinbrenner said, “Cerone’s gotten a big head. Suddenly he’s Mr. New York, the Italian Stallion. He’s going to disco joints. I have a way of bringing guys down to size, and I’ll bring him down.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Now, in the Yankees’ clubhouse, Steinbrenner said, “You haven’t lost anything yet.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_172" title="172" />
        And that was about all Cerone could take.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Fuck you, George, you fat son of a bitch,” he snapped. “You never played the game. You don’t know what the fuck you’re talking about.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The room went instantly silent.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Most of us wanted to give Rick a standing ovation,” one of the players in that room would recall years later.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner shot back.</p>
      <p class="indent">“And you won’t be playing this game as a Yankee next year, either!” he snapped. And then stalked away.</p>
      <p class="indent">By now, there were no barriers in place to keep Steinbrenner from his most basic instincts. Gabe Paul was in Cleveland. Al Rosen was in Houston, running the Astros (taking great delight when he signed free agent pitcher Don Sutton when Steinbrenner thought he had Sutton locked up). He was even about to part ways with Lou Saban, a well-traveled football coach whom Steinbrenner installed as team president mostly as a thank-you for hiring Steinbrenner on his coaching staff at Northwestern back in 1955.</p>
      <p class="indent">“By ’81 or so,” Gene Michael would say, “George was pretty much unfiltered.”</p>
      <p class="indent">His players were tired of it. Yankees fans were becoming less and less enamored with it. But there was a problem:</p>
      <p class="indent">
        In
        <i>his</i>
        mind, it worked.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Take the day after his friendly exchange with Cerone. The Yankees trailed the Brewers 2–0 in the fourth when Moose Haas tried to sneak a fastball by Reggie Jackson, and instead Jackson launched one that hit a few hands in the upper deck and then fell into the lower stands in right.</p>
      <p class="indent">More tellingly, later that inning Cerone drove in a run with a groundout, and three innings later crushed a game-clinching home run off Jim Slaton. Cerone was feted with a curtain call by fans who saw him as something of a new version of Billy Martin, standing up to the Man. And later, the Boss interrupted a crowded interview session around his locker to shake Cerone’s hand.</p>
      <p class="indent">“When people put fear in you,” Cerone said, “sometimes you play beyond yourself.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_173" title="173" />
        Jackson, a veteran of so many Steinbrenner battles, watched that exchange and couldn’t help but smile.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“Jaws roams the city,” he said. “You must adjust or be consumed.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">The Mets had</span>
        occupied precious little of Steinbrenner’s thoughts. Yes, he’d blow up if the Yankees lost in spring training games beamed back to New York, but once the regular season began the Mets would dutifully take their position in or near last place in the National League East. By the end of the seventies, they’d traded away most of their good players and refused to pursue replacements in free agency. The ghost town formerly known as Shea Stadium was redubbed “Grant’s Tomb” after chairman M. Donald Grant.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But on January 24, 1980, a group led by publishing scion Nelson Doubleday bought the Mets for $21 million. Doubleday and his chief partner, an old high school teammate of Sandy Koufax’s named Fred Wilpon, declared they would bring the Mets back to relevance by building the team up from the dust, pursuing star players and selling them on all the possibilities of New York City—essentially borrowing Steinbrenner’s blueprint for rehabilitating the Yankees. Steinbrenner knew Doubleday socially, and he welcomed him sportingly to the exclusive club of twenty-six major-league baseball owners.</p>
      <p class="indent">But he also realized the stakes were different now.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        The clues were subtle at first. When the schedule for the 1980 season was released, there was a notable absence. The Mayor’s Trophy Game had started as a round-robin charity exhibition between the Yankees, Dodgers and Giants in 1944 and later became the one time the Yankees and Mets appeared on the field together during the season. That was the toughest ticket in town most summers. As recently as 1972 it drew 52,308 people to Yankee Stadium, more than all but one of the Yankees’ regular-season games that year. By 1979 the crowds were smaller and the players even more disinterested. In his book on the 1978 season,
        <i>The Bronx Zoo</i>
        , Sparky Lyle alleged that Graig Nettles purposely threw a ball ten feet over Chris Chambliss’s head in the eleventh inning in an attempt to expedite the end of
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_174" title="174" />
        a game that would drag into the thirteenth and drew fewer than ten thousand fans to Yankee Stadium (Nettles vehemently denies that to this day).
      </p>
      <p class="indent">The game was designed to raise money for amateur baseball in New York, and the Mets were still eager to play. But Mets’ GM Frank Cashen said, “I have been told that the Mets were notified by George Steinbrenner prior to the start of the current season that the Yankees no longer wished to play the Mayor’s Trophy Game.” Or any other. In 1981, the Mets proposed a home-and-home series after the two-month strike ended; the Yankees said no, again, choosing instead to fly the rookie-league team from Bradenton, Florida, to serve as the Yankees’ warm-up for relaunching the season.</p>
      <p class="indent">Things turned nasty in spring training 1980. The Mets hired Madison Avenue legend Jerry Della Femina to put together an advertising campaign for their new-look team and Della Femina delivered beautifully with a new slogan: “The Magic Is Back.” As he was promoting it Della Femina—an admitted lifelong Yankees fanatic—took it a step further by taking shots at the Yankees.</p>
      <p class="indent">“This is a town where we had to settle for Reggie Jackson,” Della Femina said. “Let’s face it, if the Mets were where they were in 1969, Reggie Jackson would have trouble getting arrested in this town. We’re looking to Mets with star quality, like Lee Mazzilli. We believe he’s the big glamorous player in this town, a handsome Bucky Dent who can hit and doesn’t do fur commercials.”</p>
      <p class="indent">Bowie Kuhn was just as mad about that as Steinbrenner and fined the Mets $5,000—which Della Femina offered to pay, so the Mets took it out of his fee. But Steinbrenner stepped into the cage to take his swings, too.</p>
      <p class="indent">“If talk produced pennants and World Series, these guys would be champions before the season even starts,” Steinbrenner said. “For reasons unknown to me the Mets management has gone out of its way to snipe at the Yankees. Perhaps in desperation.”</p>
      <p class="indent">It was pointed out that neither Doubleday, Wilpon nor Cashen had done any of the sniping, and had in fact denounced Della Femina, but Steinbrenner put his hand up and said, “When you hire an ad agency, it speaks for management.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_175" title="175" />
        The Mets weren’t good enough to challenge the Yankees on the field yet, so Steinbrenner settled for victories where he could. He set his sights on the biggest fish of the free agency class of 1980, Dave Winfield, an outfielder for the San Diego Padres. Steinbrenner had been enamored with Winfield for years, and as early as 1978 Winfield welcomed the idea of playing in New York, asking, “Do you think I’m an unknown star? I think so. We’re never on TV. The Yankees are on TV all the time.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Two years later, with Winfield about to play out his option in San Diego, Steinbrenner pondered trading Ron Guidry—who himself would soon be due for a steep raise—to the Padres for Winfield, straight up; that never worked out. Later that summer, with the Padres visiting Shea Stadium, Winfield insisted he would love to play in Gotham: “I can live anywhere. I’m not a country boy.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He took great care to not single out a team because by now it was clear the Mets were eager to shed their frugal ways, and if Winfield picked the Mets he would immediately become their biggest star. So Yankees versus Mets it was. And the Mets, as promised, were aggressive.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I believe what I hear, and what I hear is that the Mets offered eight years and $1.2 million per,” Steinbrenner said early in December, lounging on the patio of Tampa Downs, the racetrack he owned, waiting to make his bid. “That’s formidable. But we also will offer something the Mets can’t right now: We can offer a winner.”</p>
      <p class="indent">In the end, what Steinbrenner also offered was to extend the Mets’ deal by two years, and to add a cost-of-living escalator clause that would ultimately land the two men in court a few years later. But in the moment, facing his first real piggy-bank-versus-piggy-bank battle with the Mets, Steinbrenner got his man.</p>
      <p class="indent">And that got Reggie Jackson thinking.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Jackson spent the offseason talking about wanting to end his career as a Yankee. Steinbrenner agreed that should happen. But he also never formally made Jackson an offer. Not in the offseason. Not in spring training, to which Jackson (as usual) showed up late, angering (as usual) the man with the boats. Not in the early portion of the season, when Jackson started
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_176" title="176" />
        slowly, hampered by a leg injury. Jackson took note of the Mets’ willingness to go eyeball-to-eyeball with Steinbrenner.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">One day he asked, “How many people did the Mets draw the other day?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“Two thousand, something like that,” he was told.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I could have batting practice on a Monday afternoon in the parking lot, wearing my street clothes, and I’d draw two thousand people.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The season began. No contract. Jackson couldn’t get on track. On June 11, he pinch-hit late in a 3–2 loss to the White Sox. He walked. His batting average was .199. It would stay there—a buck-ninety-nine—for fifty-nine days as baseball players walked out after those games of June 11. Jackson still didn’t have a contract.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I’m going to the beach,” he announced. “I’m not thinking about baseball for a while.”</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Jackson and the</span>
        rest of the Players Association sunned themselves, played golf, took odd jobs to occupy their time. Most baseball owners vowed a hard line this time—they were demanding strict player compensation for lost free agents (which meant those agents wouldn’t have been free at all)—but George Steinbrenner was not among them, and with good reason. He’d utilized free agency as often (and as well) as it could be used, but he’d have been less inclined to sign, say, Dave Winfield if it would’ve meant surrendering, say, prized pitching prospect Dave Righetti. There was also the small matter of commerce: The Yankees drew so well Steinbrenner dreamed of becoming the first American League team to bring in three million fans (the Dodgers had done it in 1978 and again in 1980 in the National League, in a city that didn’t fear rainouts).
      </p>
      <p class="indent">One person who didn’t mind the fifty-nine-day layoff?</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Gene Michael. For fifty-nine straight days the rookie manager didn’t lose a baseball game, and so for fifty-nine days he could relax at his home in Closter, New Jersey, and not have to worry about getting a phone call—often multiple phone calls—wondering why the Yankees didn’t bunt more, why they didn’t steal more bases, why this player was sitting and that player
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_177" title="177" />
        was playing and why, oh why, can’t the Yankees win every baseball game they play?
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Isn’t that what the good managers do?</p>
      <p class="indent">
        “I was friends, good friends, with George for a lot of years,” Michael recalled in 2014. “I did a lot of jobs for him, and he was great to work for. I was even a manager for another club [the Chicago Cubs] and we still got along great. The only time I ever had a problem with him was when I was his manager. Because anyone who was his manager, it was
        <i>impossible</i>
        to get along with him. Impossible.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Michael had actually been a hair away from getting fired already. The Yankees got off to a slow start, always a terrible thing for a manager who worked in the Bronx. Worse, the Yankees went to Baltimore for the first time in late May and got swept by the Orioles and their infernal tyrant, Earl Weaver. They were already four and a half games behind the Birds. Steinbrenner began to boil and there was nobody to turn the burner down.</p>
      <p class="indent">“He doesn’t listen to anyone anymore,” Saban told a friend.</p>
      <p class="indent">Bad news for Michael.</p>
      <p class="indent">“There’s going to be some things happening very shortly,” Steinbrenner pledged. “I’m going to sit with my people tomorrow. Don’t be surprised if some things happen.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Such as . . . firing the manager? After
        <i>forty-two</i>
        games?
      </p>
      <p class="indent">“That could be the decision that’s made,” Steinbrenner replied.</p>
      <p class="indent">Michael was flown to Tampa for a sit-down with Steinbrenner on an off-day while the team traveled from Baltimore to Cleveland. He didn’t beg to keep his job. Mostly, he listened. When he’d been the GM, Michael learned that listening quietly was the best way to endure a meeting with an angered Steinbrenner.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I don’t agree with everything George does,” Michael said afterward. “But I know George pays the bills and can do what he wants. He has that right.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        What he’d lost, much to Michael’s good fortune, was the ability to hire Gene Mauch, longtime manager for the Phillies and Twins now working with the Angels as an adviser to Gene Autry. Steinbrenner called Mauch to
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_178" title="178" />
        gauge his availability before summoning Michael to Tampa, and Mauch said he was, indeed, interested. But by the time Michael’s plane landed, Autry fired manager Jim Fregosi and replaced him with Mauch.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Michael was safe. For now.</p>
      <p class="indent">Then a funny thing happened. The Yankees won nine in a row—including a payback sweep of the Orioles in New York—and barreled into first place by three games. This became a significant thing when the strike was finally settled—the owners had their clocks cleaned again by Marvin Miller—and the owners agreed to a split-season format. All the first-place teams from before the strike would play the winners from after the strike in a one-time intra-division best-of-five series, prior to the League Championship Series.</p>
      <p class="indent">Good news for the Yankees. Great news for their fans, and for their owner: guaranteed playoff games two months before the end of the season.</p>
      <p class="indent">The bad news for Michael? The Yankees were about to play baseball games again.</p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">Even for Steinbrenner,</span>
        this seemed, and felt, ridiculous. The Yankees came out flat in August, perfectly understandable given they quite literally had nothing to play for: Even if they went 0–51, they were still guaranteed a spot in the playoffs. Even if they went 51–0 it wouldn’t matter because the owners, absurdly, decided that if a team won both halves they’d still face the team with the second-best record in a division series. It was actually something of a tribute to Gene Michael that he got the Yankees to Labor Day weekend in Kansas City with a 14–12 record.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">But when the Yankees walked into the clubhouse that day, and peered into the manager’s office, the familiar face that greeted them from behind the desk wasn’t Gene Michael’s. It was Bob Lemon’s.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Condolences, mate,” Graig Nettles said with a laugh, shaking Lemon’s hand.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Michael had never been more popular with the team than in his final hours. When he’d been hired, there was grumbling Steinbrenner had embedded a double agent in their midst. Michael was close with the Boss, and
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_179" title="179" />
        unlike with Billy Martin, Dick Howser, Lemon and Ralph Houk, they weren’t sure Michael would take their side in high-level battles of wills. Michael proved them wrong, especially when he stared Steinbrenner down in May. At the time, the one move Steinbrenner did enact was firing pitching coach Stan Williams—a close Michael confederate—and installing Clyde King, a deep part of Steinbrenner’s inner circle.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">
        So Michael really
        <i>was</i>
        on their side.
      </p>
      <p class="indent">And now he was gone.</p>
      <blockquote>
        <p class="exta2a">
          <b>INTERLUDE:</b>
          Interestingly, one who managed to survive the purging of both Michael and Dick Howser was Mike Ferraro, the third base coach who’d sent Steinbrenner into such a bitter rage in the 1980 playoffs. He was affable and likable, and Steinbrenner allowed him to stay, switching him to first base coach.
        </p>
        <p class="exti3">“I’ve received invaluable advice from some of the great first base coaches of our time,” Ferraro quipped early in ’81. “Both Yogi Berra and Whitey Ford have told me my most important duty will be to keep my back pocket buttoned. Plus, I get to pat the players on the butt. If I do all those things, Yogi and Whitey tell me I have every chance to be remembered as the complete first base coach.”</p>
        <p class="exti3">It also seemed every time he went to Pompano Park to watch the trotters with Ferraro and Michael, Steinbrenner came out ahead thanks to Ferraro’s handicapping.</p>
        <p class="extiz">“Your job,” he always kidded Ferraro, “is safe for another day.” After the ’82 season Ferraro was hired to manage the Indians, then after reuniting with Howser in Kansas City he had a second stint as a coach with the Yankees from 1986 to 1991. He died in July 2024.</p>
      </blockquote>
      <p class="indent">
        Michael was gone because he couldn’t tolerate the lack of respect Steinbrenner showed him, or the job of manager. He’d seen it with Martin. He’d seen it with Lemon. He’d seen it up close with Howser, which is why Michael went so far as to beg Howser to return within days of Steinbrenner’s announcement that Howser would leave the job to pursue exciting real
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_180" title="180" />
        estate opportunities. Michael knew what was coming, and more than anyone who would ever occupy the post, he was ready for it . . .
        <i>and still got run over.</i>
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner was adding new items to his playbook, too. On August 19, after a 6–5 loss at home to the White Sox, Michael was characteristically frank about his team’s performance: “I told them they were horseshit, and they knew they were horseshit.” Steinbrenner piled on: “I don’t pay this kind of money to see mediocrity. They’ll practice till they get it right.”</p>
      <p class="indent">He meant that literally. The Yankees had an off-day August 20—or did, until Michael announced a mandatory workout. Days off in August are essential to keeping baseball players from burning out, and Michael knew that better than anyone, which is why there wasn’t a single Yankee who believed this was Michael’s idea. It was all Steinbrenner.</p>
      <p class="indent">A week later, Michael finally blew.</p>
      <p class="indent">“It bothers me,” Michael said of the constant barrage of phone calls to his home, to his office, to the dugout. “I can’t manage this way. He’s always saying it’s my fault. It happened again today and he indicated he might have to make a managing change. I told him, ‘George, do it now. Don’t wait.’ I don’t like the threats.”</p>
      <p class="indent">From there, it was just a matter of when, not if.</p>
      <p class="indent">“You can’t say those things about your boss and expect to get away with it,” Steinbrenner reasoned.</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner’s timing was lousy, though. Just as he was considering whom to replace Michael with, the Royals fired their manager, Jim Frey, and replaced him with Dick Howser, who was first on Steinbrenner’s wish list. Then, just two days after he pulled the trigger, the Montreal Expos axed Dick Williams, Steinbrenner’s perennial dance partner.</p>
      <p class="indent">So it would be Lemon, and even as he said hello to his players Lemon was absolutely certain of one thing: He’d be saying goodbye to them soon enough, too.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Don’t get too comfortable, Meat,” Lemon said, chuckling, when he met with Michael to discuss the transition, using the nickname he used for everybody. “I’m just keeping your seat warm.”</p>
      <p class="indent">
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_181" title="181" />
        Steinbrenner had owned the Yankees for just over eight years. Including two-timers, Lemon would be his ninth manager.
      </p>
      <p class="noindent1">
        <span class="bold">The writers were</span>
        groggy as they assembled in the owner’s suite at the Wilshire Hyatt. It was 11:30 p.m. local time—2:30 in the morning back home—and they were eager to get a few hours of sleep before flying back to New York between Games 5 and 6 of the World Series. They’d been summoned for an “emergency briefing.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">They were greeted by a most remarkable sight: Steinbrenner’s left hand, bandaged. There was a cut on his right hand. His lip was puffy. There was a bump on his head. Steinbrenner wore a plaid lumberjack shirt, which might have been the oddest twist of all.</p>
      <p class="indent">Well, until Steinbrenner began telling his story.</p>
      <p class="indent">It seems he’d gotten on the elevator at the Wilshire to head down to dinner following the Dodgers’ tense 2–1 win in Game 5, which gave LA a 3–2 edge in the series. At one point the elevator stopped and two men walked on—Dodgers fans, Steinbrenner could tell, because one was wearing a Dodgers cap and the other recognized him and sneered, “Steinbrenner, right?”</p>
      <p class="indent">“That’s right,” said the Boss, according to the Boss.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Why don’t you go back to those fucking animals in New York and take your choke-ass players with you?”</p>
      <p class="indent">In his suite at the Wilshire a few hours later Steinbrenner said, “I’m sick of people in other cities knocking Yankees fans, and I especially couldn’t take it when he said my players were chokes. It’s OK for me to criticize them because I pay their checks. I’m not going to listen to some drunk fan say that about my players.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The writers in the room looked at each other, wondering if they’d somehow made a wrong turn and landed thirty miles away in Disney’s Fantasyland.</p>
      <p class="indent">
        Steinbrenner: “I cursed at the guy, and he hit me in the side of the head with a bottle. I clocked him with my left hand, and the other guy hit me in the mouth. I slugged him, too. The elevator door opened, and I got off.
        <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="page_182" title="182" />
        I left them there, one guy on the floor and the other kneeling over him. I went to the washroom, washed blood off my face and went to dinner.”
      </p>
      <p class="indent">Did this really happen?</p>
      <p class="indent">Steinbrenner insisted it did, and said so right to the end. A few LA radio stations tried to find the mystery elevator men for a couple of days, got inundated with crank callers, and gave up. Forty-four years later, nobody has stepped forward to confirm the story. But nobody has stepped forward to debunk it, either.</p>
      <p class="indent">One man who chose to believe it was one Alfred Manuel “Billy” Martin.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Just heard the news. You’re fired,” Martin crowed in a telegram he sent Steinbrenner the next day. “I understand exactly how you must have felt in that elevator. I only hope you don’t have a good-behavior clause in your contract.”</p>
      <p class="indent">If the effect was to rally the troops behind John Wayne, the mission failed. The Dodgers wrapped up the series in Game 6 at Yankee Stadium with help from Bob Lemon, who made the curious decision—in a World Series played without a DH—to pinch-hit for Tommy John, pitching well, in the fourth inning of a 1–1 game. The Dodgers blasted his replacements for seven runs the next two innings. The Yankees lost 9–2.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I want to sincerely apologize to the people of New York and fans everywhere for the performance of the Yankees team in the World Series,” Steinbrenner said in a statement issued minutes after the final out. “I also want to assure you that we will be at work immediately to prepare for 1982.”</p>
      <p class="indent">The ball club did not take Steinbrenner’s apology well.</p>
      <p class="indent">“I have nothing to apologize for,” said Reggie Jackson, who hit .333 and slugged .667 with a homer in the series.</p>
      <p class="indent">“Hell,” Lou Piniella fumed. “We could’ve played better. We just didn’t.”</p>
      <p class="indent">It would be 5,471 days before the Yankees would again play a World Series game.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
